Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/mona-alag-2017/mona-alag-2017_2mG5GMQXUZQ.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T17:17:31.166Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

Some people would think this the last name of the ever-made that we've been first. And I
have two young men who are so well behaved sitting there waiting for grammar. So I think
it's time we end up more than alive. I'd like to thank you, Sondarshan. I'm glad you're
here. Welcome, and I'm glad you're here. I'm glad you're here. Namaste and good evening. In
India, the word "bibi" literally means an elder sister. But metaphorically, the word means
much more. It signifies a go-to person for the younger siblings, someone who has a cool head
and a lot of knowledge and some judgment. In other words, a "bibi" has answers to life's
questions. Every lucky family has one, and every immigrant community is surely fortunate to
have one. Our Indian community's "bibi" is called Mona Ala. For Mona, the involvement in
social causes began at a very young age when a woman friend in distress asked for help. Then
another one asked, and then another. That led eventually to the creation of Association of
Asian Indian Women of Ohio, a support group for women in distress. Mona has been there at
the inception of Project SEVA. The word "SEVA" means selfless service. SEVA has provided
meals, blankets, hygiene packets to countless individuals throughout Northeast Ohio. Mona
has made a single contribution to the Indian Cultural Guard, where the statue of Mahatma
Gandhi stands proudly on Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. And of course, Mona has been an
integral part of FICA, the umbrella organization of Asian Indians in Northeast Ohio. In
other words, there is no effort undertaken by the Indian community in the cultural,
philanthropic, or the service realm that Mona has been a significant part of. Mona, your
FICA family is proud of you. The larger Indian community is proud of you for being chosen
for this honor. And I think Dr. Mohan Bhapna, the immediate past recipient of the very same
award, said it best, very said. And I quote, "There is no more deserving person for this
honor than Mrs. Mona Mahatma. She is a diligent and humble pillar of the Indian community.
Congratulations." And today it is my high honor to induct you in the Pumice International
College Award. Thank you for your attention. I truly appreciate your kind words. If I could
break your indulgence just for a moment, a shout out to my grandson's hearing. My two dates
for the evening, I got lucky, I got two dates. Our 9-year-old saturn and 5-year-old her. And
of course, the other undergraduates in California, Samay and I have. I call them my heart
and soul. And the 5-year-old wanted to know what his place was on the phone call. So he
said, "What is more important, honey, the heart or the soul?" And I said, "That's a bit
complicated. I'll give back to you." And we looked straight at the eyes and he said, "You
should not say complicated things." That's not a life lesson, I don't know what it is. When
your efforts are noticed and acknowledged, it gives you an impetus to not only continue what
you're doing, but to put a little more effort into it. And then to be surrounded by such
dignitaries where in front of them my resume is just a footnote. I am so honored to be in
your presence and to be counted in the same group as you are. Where we come from in India,
it is not... First of all, my experiences are not global, national or even statewide. My
efforts and interests and pursuits have been just local, Cleveland. And that too, a very
small part of Cleveland, the Indian community. My focus has just been in the Indian
community. And mainly both of women, young mothers and daughters, who for some reason or the
other have fallen on difficult times. Where we come from in our culture, we don't talk about
your problems, it's taboo. I speak of rural India now, you are not urban. And when you
realize that that mindset of rural India has found its way to the United States, it's very
troubling. And you see these young girls and women, mothers who are here, experiencing some
of the same issues that they did back home. It talks about your heartstrings and you want to
make things a little bit better for them. Maybe one day they will all be able to rise up and
say, "It is not my fault that this thing is not working, my marriage is not working." Or
something is going wrong in my life, it is not just my fault. To give you a small example, I
got a call from an acquaintance of mine, who had literally a phone number and said, "Would
you please talk to this young lady, she doesn't feel safe at all." I spoke with her and I
found out the reason she didn't feel safe was because she had three daughters and wasn't
able to give her family a son. And she felt that there was something going on and she didn't
feel safe for her daughters or for herself. And she just needed a place to hide for a week.
Then she said the storm grew over. I never thought anything of it. I got in my car, what I
came to mind was a hymn from our Holy Scriptures which says, translated, says, "God gave me
the strength and the wisdom in order to shy away from something that is right." I got in my
car and I brought her home, the three kids and the mother. And much to the order of my
husband, we saw our own two kids and three little girls under the age of seven running
around in the house. And when I explained to him what it was, the good, decent human being
that he is, all he said was, "Be careful, don't get into any trouble." A week later I found
out that the husband was truly repentant and he wanted his wife and his children home. There
was no mention of son or daughter. He just wanted his children home. And I realized that
such a small effort in my heart changed the path of their lives. And now two of these young
girls are in medicine and one of them is a lawyer. So how do you... how do you not reach out
to them? How do you not put an extra effort to make a difference in their lives? A few years
ago, a couple of friends and myself, Dr. Jaya Shah and Dr. Hiba Gokwani, we formed a very
informal sort of group called Helping Hands. And what Helping Hands does is it provides
anything from a ride to the hospital, a home cooked meal when a spouse is unwary, a little
bit of lighthouse work if needed, somebody's sick, they can't do it. I believe we have
gotten hundreds and hundreds of calls towards that end. One thing that would stay with me
until the day I died was a young couple had moved to Cleveland just for a few months because
his mother was on her last days. And she was so weak she couldn't sit up and read from the
Holy Scriptures, the same faith that she was from the same faith that I am. So the daughter
of Gokwani said, "Would you be able to come and read the morning prayers for her?" Because
she has not gone without that person today. It's a long prayer, it's about an hour and a
half. But I said, "Okay, I will do it." Every day I would go there. For seven to eight days
I went, and every day I went, she would... when she said, "Bye," she would say, "See you
tomorrow." And I went the next day. Till on the eight days she sort of, you know, "Okay,
that's enough." And on the ninth day she died. The look in her eyes, the gratitude would
always stay with me. So these are the kind of things we like to do to make life a little
easier, a little more bearable for someone who has all of them at hard times. So be it the
Federation of India Community Association, the Project SEGA, or the Association of Asian
Indian Women, with its helpline, which still exists today, or helping hands. Wherever there
is a need, we are a host of volunteers who will always, always come through for you. So if
anyone of you knows of any family or an individual that has fallen on difficult times,
please get... contact that handsome and he will in turn get the message to me. Thank you
very much.
