[applause and cheering] >> Let me tell you what each recipients will receive tonight. Of
course, you'll get your your your plaque, you'll get a pin, and a number of proclamations.
And the proclamations are from Governor Wyne, the State Senate, the State House, Cuyahoga
County, Cleveland City Council, and the City of Cleveland. So, lots of stuff to take home
for our distinguished honorees. Let's meet our first honoree of the evening going to the
Cleveland International Hall of Fame. She is Lucy Torres. Lucy will be inducted by a
gentleman you met earlier tonight, the president of the Cleveland City Council, Mr. Blaine
Griffin. Thank you. I know I had a chance to speak to you earlier, but this is truly another
honor and a privilege because when you work with someone, a lot of people don't realize but
you spend the majority of your life with the people that you work with and not the people
that you live with sometimes. So, Lucy Torres is like family to me. Lucy is the person who
took me into the Puerto Rican and Hispanic community and indoctrinated me on such a
wonderful culture. I'll never forget her taking me to some of the clubs and I thought that
they were nightclubs or party centers, but they weren't. They were places where families
gathered, where the first floor would have children and young folks, the second floor would
have uh young professionals, and then you would have some of the senior folks that would be
playing cards. And she was such an icon in the community that everywhere that she went and
walked, everybody knew her. Lucy was responsible for helping me grow into my personal and
professional self. She's a person who I see her daughter, that's here today, that she loves
her family. Her late husband was a phenomenal guy who we would sit there for hours and hang
out over their house and eat because she's a great cook, too. But most of all, Lucy's love
for community and her civic spirit was something that was unmatched. So, being with all of
these different directors and having the honor and the privilege for her to ask me to fill
in for Manny Velez, who's a police officer who unfortunately couldn't be here today, is
truly an honor. She was one of the impetus for making sure that the Puerto Rican community
always had a voice, always had a voice at the table. She ran and put together one of the
most impactful committees that made sure that the Hispanic community always had an advice on
important issues. So, not only could she throw a good party, she also knew how to handle the
purpose for the Puerto Rican and Hispanic community. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is an
honor and a privilege as the former executive director of the community relations board and
as the current Cleveland City Council President to induct my friend, the honorable Lucy
Rodriguez Torrez. >> [applause and cheering] [screaming] >> Pick them up. Just the award,
just the award. Luce. I did this picture. Awesome. >> Let's give her another round of
applause. >> [applause] >> Thank you. Thank you. It's an honor for me. Thank you. Thank you,
Ben. Um I'm privileged to be here uh tonight and to receive this recognition. My community
is a very very important community for this city. We have worked very hard to put our
community up there. We are good people. We are hard worker people and we are dedicated
people. I would like also to say thank you to my family, my daughter Charisse, my
grandchildren and also my niece, my nephew that are they always also my children because I
raised them. They came from Puerto Rico looking for a better way to improve themselves and
they have. So at this time what I have to say is thank you, Lord, for the time that you have
allowed me to be here. And to all of you, thank you. >> [applause]
