Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/david-gilbert-2025/david-gilbert-2025_XeheG0iGICs.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T14:18:00.667Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

Our next update is the leader of dedication and great commission for I just want to say
something for your and you want to create some kind of mind. I think that these pictures for
15 years in this room with us right now you 2013 passed away. We lost daddy and we lost the
Holy Father. But I think that if there's one thing that's true and if this room tells that
story is that somewhere in the skies, good people are together as they are. The person
tonight ironically has a lot to do with the on the top of these screens right here. This is
Cleveland. If you've seen these spots, if you benefited from one of the many, many wonderful
groups he's brought in, then tonight, the person that you want to thank is none other than
Mr. David Gilbert. David is born and in this city. He was Cleveland before Cleveland was
cool. David is someone who grew up in our community, who knows our community, and who had a
chance. He was offered a job and said, "No thanks. I'd ra for those of you who saw just a
few days ago when he began his job, 34% of our neighbors said I wouldn't recommend my
hometown to anyone." as always is absolutely gorgeous and brilliant wife is here. They
raised their kids in their amazing story. But I want to tell you a personal story. I had a
chance to work with David but he brought different events to and one of them was something
that nobody thought we would get and there's something that needs something tonight and when
we were trying to get the international games they had a choice between the city of Boston
the city of Washington DC and little Cleveland and Mayor Frank George Jackson our 56 mayor
said to the visiting delegates you You can go, you can go to Washington, but nobody's going
to love you like as we were walking out, one of the players said, "Excuse me, excuse me. Do
you work for the city of Cleveland? I have never been treated by such respect by police
officers as they are here and she said something when I tell them you have something to
learn from the city. I remember when the seniors were here and somebody stopped me and asked
me for directions and I thought they asked them how they're doing and they said I want to
tell you something. When I was on the RTA bus somebody asked me where I was from and they
made me feel home. All of that is because of the architecture of one day. He's a lot of
things. He's a marathon runner. He's a humble guy. He's an award leadership community from
the Jewish American community of which David is one of our leaders children's games senior
games basketball when he came here to nationals Anyone in this room, Ukraine, Russia, Japan,
Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, your mass and he says they for your for being such a huge honor
and interested in what's happening for relations. I do everything I can with one senator
senator friends with our George to do what I can to take the example of Cleveland around the
country and make sure that we play a rightful role that we need to play in this world the
way you have done that doesn't happen by accident a US senator doesn't come to a city of a
major republican convention with more ambassadors than ever if there isn't somebody who's
working day and night to make sure that happens. We have architects in this room. One of
them is Mr. Richard who's been so responsible for internationalizing our city. Another
people with somebody who introduced her and that was Mr. whose mother used to say before he
went to bed every night. They drew a line to keep me out. Heretic rebel won to f. Oh, but
love and David Gilbert had the wit to win. We drew a circle and brought them in. Ladies and
gentlemen, David Heat. Heat. Uh thank you to my fellow. Thank you Dan. Uh and to be a memory
blessing I award very much. Um but this one called was was uh very personal. Um and as so
much my career trying to bring people to Cleveland. Thank you so much to our team that that
shares this passion with me. Um bringing international groups here. Um it truly has been a
passion. Um and it goes back starting in 2000 just after the sports commission started.
We've been in existence for 6 months. Um there were three of us at the time. organization
read an article about event called the international children's games and it happened to be
taking place in Hamilton Ontario. They've been around for about 25 years for the World Team
Olympics and never taking place in North America and uh we ended up uh putting the team
together to participate in baseball team and that allowed us to be to try and bring that to
Cleveland. Really didn't know what it would take. um Mayor Mike at the time did video for us
and we we put our best foot forward. We met with the committee and I think thankfully they
really wanted to come to the US and they said before we left we're coming to Cleveland 2024
and I remember on the drive back two3 of our staff in the car looking at each other excuse
my lang what the hell did we just get ourselves and uh um and not long after that and um he
Let's do this. He got it immediately and uh it's because of you successful and so many
people in this room and so being here just seeing and generation and um so many others that
are here that help put this together and learn so much. I have to say what I learned from
Alex a lot and We we so many people on this screen, so many people in this room jumped in,
people I didn't know said, "We're going to make this great." And because of those efforts,
we have what is still the largest game in the 50 plus history. We have 123 cities from 50
plus countries here. of 3,000 athletes, several thousand other people from around the world.
It is still as widely considered probably the best they've ever had and still talked about
as as a moment for that worldwide event. And it's because of this community because we
embrace them unlike any other. And I was fortunate enough for the next almost two decades to
be on that board and executive committee representing our great city. We still take teams
every year to participate and uh um and take take part in that. And I think that people ask
me all these events that have come to town, what what means the most cuz that's what taught
me that bring town is not just about the dollars they spend. It's about a chance for people
to fall in love with our city. And that's what happens. That's because of the people in this
room here. Every one of these speakers talk about it. So many other major international
events follow. Joe mentioned the Gay Games, the Pan Masters Games just here last summer,
first time ever in the United States. And and every time every time this is this no joke,
they walk away saying there's something special about this city that we don't feel anywhere
else. And every time these meetings, conventions, major events come to Cleveland. doesn't
happen by accident. We're we're in competition with cities from around the country, around
the world, and I think they see our path and why we want to have them here. But what's
amazing is that that we we chose to go after them. But almost to to a person, to an
organizing community, to an event, they walk away feeling something incredibly incredibly
special about this community. It's just who we are. Um I I just feel like what what we have
here we embrace, we appreciate, we celebrate and it's something that makes this community
very different, very unique from other places around the world. Um just I I want to thank
all of you um for making this city so special. Um thank you to my my beautiful wife as
mentioned for supporting everything I do. I get a ride home now. Oh yeah, she's my best
friend. And thank you for
