Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/honorable-jose-a-villanueva-2015/honorable-jose-a-villanueva-2015_7Jj4sizisoM.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T17:17:31.122Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

When José A. Villanueva Cleveland, heritage, honoree, induction ceremony. He was born in
Fort Rebo on here, down at the near west side of Cleveland. He had been a partner in the
Litigation Room in the Cleveland office of Baker and Pass Dettler since 1987. Once again,
see they linger behind me so I don't say everything. But let me just type this, I don't know
if she answered, I wish I did. But I hear this son always refer to him as Elv F. May. To me,
that means the boss, he's the man, his son is waiting on the flag, and he's the gentleman.
José A. Villanueva Cleveland, heritage, honoree, induction ceremony. I got in when I got in.
You look at this group over here, Lord. Oh my gosh. So I'm going to stay consistent with the
two-minute annotations I've observed everyone else has done. I consider it a high honor to
disagree with you to celebrate this wonderful f***ing help inductee. In the Cleveland Hall
of Fame, the Admiral Judge José Antonio Villanueva, a friend of mine for 50 years. Richard,
you hear that? Yeah. You can't believe that he's known anybody for 50 years, right? And what
I'd like to do is briefly talk a little bit about his journey and talk a little bit about
his journey. So this occasion is indeed a special one given the importance of what I think
the Cleveland Hall of Fame really represents, and that is the most sacred of human values of
liberty. My wife, Marnie, and I have had the privilege of going to José in his beloved white
pecking, and for me, she's always going to be a sweet 16 pecking. And we've been blessed
also to enjoy the friendship of his incomparable and versatile son, Joshua. As I and I grew
up out of Riverside, Cleveland, in the neighborhood of St. Patrick's Parish, where we spent
count as others playing baseball and basketball, engaging in many civic and social
activities and other things too, your honor. And over at St. Patrick's Poppy House. I've
often described the judge as a man of history, and I think describing him as such is really
not an overstate. In many ways, the journey of Judge Jose Villanueva is the journey of
immigrant America, which is the journey of America itself. Born in the hills of Puerto Rico,
initially living in projects in Gemesdon when he came to America, his honor rose to become
the first Hispanic under 18th grade, the first Hispanic in the history of this state to be
elected countywide domestic disservice in 1988. You've got to remember that Ohio is the
seventh, the seventh largest state in America. He remains to this day the only disbank, and
let me repeat that, the only disbank that we're elected to the general division of the
county's court of this state. And let me tell you a little bit about how he's done that. In
2004, Judge Villanueva received 286,468 votes by 10 a.m. 286,468 votes. That's a staggering
number he's sure. And in 2010, he came with approximately 1,000 votes of leading every judge
in the whole of the county. Not bad from a boy from the hills of Puerto Rico. A self-made
man is sure. And of a self-made man, Frederick Douglass once said, "The idea of a self-made
man is inextricably tied up with that of the American Dream. It is his image that has lured
thousands of Americans to our shores, thousands. The self-made man is he who comes from
unpromising circumstances, who is not born with privilege and wealth. And yet by his own
efforts, by pulling himself up by the bush, he manages to become the great success that he
is." And that's America, too. And that's the judge for South Dakota. And that's how he is
the best way known in our community, the judge or our judge. On the bench, she's
distinguished himself with his extraordinary work ethic, consistently ranked at the top of
all accomplished judges in total jury trials every year. The judge consistently receives the
endorsement of the Cleveland Plain Dealer. He receives eyes and ratings of the professional
legal organization in the College of County, including my own beloved Cleveland Bar
Association. And to be sure, his honor has been the arc of history in a positive direction.
The judge in my judgment is the personification of the certainty. I've always admired how he
has stood up for the last and the least, the voiceless. Upon graduation, he immediately went
into public service working for the Cleveland Lake Lake Society, serving the poor. He also
served as commissioner for the Ohio Civil Rights Commission, where he championed and offered
policies for the handicapped and the victims of sexual harassment. He's only one of five
judges, five judges of our 33 or 38 judges, who volunteered to preside to the Ohio County's
mental health disabilities and development disabilities case level. On the community side,
the judge's involvement and service to our community is legendary. His service includes the
membership of my organization, Hispanic Ground Table, numerous Hispanic organizations,
United Way, the Greater Cleveland Ground Table, the Cleveland Marshall Law School, you can
read all those in his bio there. Now to his heart. This was a wonderful occasion to be sure,
and I'm sure that he wishes that his beloved mother, going out loose, were here with us. She
was the lioness of the Van Vam of family, and we're blessed that there was a sister here
from Florida who has many of those characteristics, loyalty, tender hearted yet courageous,
hardworking, and extraordinarily caring. Traced and were not lost under his son. Gayle
Singer, the great running back of the Chicago Bears wrote a book, entitled Lion Third,
referring to God, family, and himself. The judge's book, and my judgment should be entitled
Five Lasts and For God, Family, Friends, Hispanic Community, and Anyone in Need, and then
Him. I have personally observed many of his countless acts of private charity and love, and
I won't tell you about it because I'll embarrass him. The scripture teaches us, "Blessed are
their pure in heart, for they will seek out, to be sure, as they have blessed you." At the
same time, he had a warrior's heart on the athletic field, especially on the basketball
court, like my son did, and on the baseball field where he always demonstrated grace under
pressure and leadership, and where he always evidenced the generosity gene. I know that was
the beneficiary, he always made me look good. Let me close with one of my favorite church
folk quotes, which is particularly apropos to the judge. "You make a living by what you get,
but you make a life by what you do." Genevieve Nueva has made an extraordinary life. I thank
him. I thank God Almighty. And mostly I thank him for the treasure of his friendship. Please
help me give a round of applause to my dear friend, I go back to the judge, Jose Athonio
Viamo.
