We have not just proposed, but we do all. We have decided to support the contract.
Congratulations to all of you. Thank you to the people of Cleveland. Thank you to the Henson
family and the people of Cleveland. [Spanish] Your servants whose origins are from present
mountain sky. [Spanish] Is proud to be part of this great event. [Spanish] Sincere thanks to
you. [Spanish] Faithful era in the pursuit of justice. [Spanish] Concerned to your people.
[Spanish] You live your life, that others may benefit from your success. [Spanish] There is
only one direction on which to go. Let's move forward. Thank you for your kind introduction.
And by the way, I've translated from Spanish to English so that we'll simply not be able to
understand this. Now, Bishop, there's one count still here. You know, Bishop, we should
never miss an opportunity to apologize for the spite. And I have to, I saw that in here
earlier, I'm going to have to apologize. Because you said, when you told us those years to
be true, he said, I'm the one who does everything in the United States. So I just want to
apologize, you know. I want to acknowledge special guests. I was going to go through all the
people that I hear, especially my request. I just wanted to acknowledge my lovely wife.
She's German-Irish. My name is Joshua, he's looking for work. And my sister is a buddy of
Marita, who came up from Florida as a surprise, as we looked at every year earlier. [foreign
language] The Asperas have been good for you. First came the Germans and Brits, and then the
Irish and large numbers. The Southern and Eastern Europeans followed the late 19th century,
along with the Jews. They all came here in great numbers, before the great wars, to end all
the wars. Then came the African Americans and the First Latinos, the Mexicans in the 1920s.
The Puerto Ricans came later, and served during the mid-50s and 60s. In the early 50s, my
father entered a migrant stream, following crops up and down the eastern seaboard, were
followed by Puerto Ricans and workers from other Caribbean nations. During this
expatriation, he would send money back home and make the occasional visit, and nine, plus
sometimes a few months later, my mother would bear another child, until she had to care for
four of us hard to bear her up. Then one day my father and other Puerto Ricans, Bishop,
refused the work of Florida Field and a good fighter. They recruited her to fire them all,
so he and his more equal companion, should have arrived in Youngstown when they were told
the steel mills were hiring. And he got a job at the Youngstown Chief of Board Company. He
was put to work in the last vertices, the dirtiest, hottest, most dangerous part of the
mill, work he carefully accepted. And because he was no longer in the point of evil of his
birth, of course he had to learn a new language, in order to communicate with his coworkers
and neighbors. Italian. You see, all the workers and crew leaders of the program worked in
Italian. My father was happy to have a job. Naturally, the Italians were just so happy to
welcome him to the cover, even lower than they had been, of the socio-economic law of my
life. In the meantime, our mother put coffee beans on Steve Bill's side back over in
Nicaragua. She harvested and struck out tobacco for curing, and she did peace work, so made
his evening gloves, and eventually be worn by fancy women on the mainland. Until she saved
enough money to buy fairs on the day of hiring, one of the four urchins, the youngest steel
breastfed. United with our father, we ended up in the subtly Italian working class, Rock
Hill neighborhood of Youngstown, Ohio, right next to a mill with my fatherhood. At night we
would watch the molten steel being poured from giant vehicles, while standing just outside
the doors to our home, and we would pretend that one of the figures being so low-headed by
the fiery orange world was our father. From our Italian neighbors, my mother worked with
canned vegetables and fruit. She learned as they had, doing so helped us get through the
window. I became her helper, turning the hand press, the grind of tomatoes, once they had
been cooked and peeled. She also ordered the baked nut breads. They turned out less than
perfect, but would taste enough if eaten soon after coming out of the oven. My father was
speaking Italian, my mother was carrying vegetables, she was making grilled spaghetti sauce,
and making Italian pastries. They even named their newest daughter, Angela, in a gesture to
our neighbors. We thought we were becoming true Americanos. In reality, we were
transitioning into Italian. But perhaps that's the same thing. When the steel mill began to
shut down in Hemsworth, my father got a job in a metal-standing factory in Brooklyn family
in Cleveland. We marvel at the variety of peoples who live in the Cleveland area. We were
ahead to see that there were plenty of Italians, so it was really a good life home. There
were also many more Puerto Ricans here, though they were still lagging behind every other
social home, economically and in social status. Our mother, however, was wary of the Puerto
Ricans. With so many around, she was afraid that we would get into our business, wouldn't
call chinché, that's Spanish for gossip. Puerto Rican professionals were virtually
non-existent in that period, and lack of access, none for treatment, or reality. This is one
reason why a number of my generation, including Jose Feliciano and his brothers from
Seattle, and others such as Vicente Rosadas, wouldn't do all. Thus we could be advocates for
our community and break through some barriers. And Sister Alicia Barralo, Bishop, became a
nun to enlist in support of that. The goal was to create opportunity and advance the
fortunes of our people. The work continues, new leadership is springing up, Bishop Ruiz,
Manta Gomez, Luis Artejena, Elizabeth Ihara, Jose Feliciano Jr., Abdo Castro, President of
the Ohio Hispanic Bar Association, and others keep up the good fight on behalf of the rights
and well-being of Hispanics who are settled in this area. They do it for all the same
reasons as when the doors began, and just as importantly to contribute, positively, to our
good city. Yes, Cleveland, the Asperos have been good for you and for our nation, but I must
note that at these times there is a new diaspora, mark it long, that needs our help. By far
the whitest number of the new diaspora, but not all, is comprised of Spanish speakers. They
have the same disadvantages that our native Puerto Rican communities have, but with one huge
difference, they lack citizenship. Illinois Congressman Luis Gutierrez of his family was
both still dreaming, even if you can, describe some of his members of the agreements as
follows. "They are loaning outlaws in the only country they have ever known. They have grown
up here, gone to school here, graduated from high school here. Their parents may remember
life from Mexico, whether Dominican Republic or Poland for that matter, but for this entire
class of immigrants, there has never been any home other than the United States. They are
entirely American, except for the fact that they are missing a piece of paper showing their
citizens." And then there is another part of this diaspora, undocumented parents of citizen
children born here, who the government insists on reporting. This results in one of two
untenable consequences, the terrible part of the nuclear families or the de facto expulsion
of American citizens. My mother had it right. She said that we might never be true
Americanus, but we pursue the language, American citizens. We might from time to time here
go back to where you came from or some variant of this continent where we could not be
kicked out deported. Wise by the United States. So my next point is more of an entry that we
all know we can't support immigration reform, the supposed alternative to spelling millions
of members of largely hard-working families manifesting a cold and capitalist political
calculus. That this irresponsible times and reality and tenable does little to diminish the
damage inflicted upon the part of our human family. Let's resolve, no more nightmares for
rumors, no more confrontations with those who embrace and live our nation's values. Now,
here's a slogan for our nation, "We want you, S of A." Now, that sounds more like "Me,
America." [speaking Spanish]
