Our next conductive this year is GS. Good evening everyone. Um I would like also to join all
others in congratulations victims. So with this special honor to be inducted in the
international hall of fame. So it is a very distant uh honor and special privilege and great
pleasure to introduce today who is a friend and also an exceptional individual of many. I
would like just to highlight a few titles so that you will understand what she was able to
achieve here. Included Sana is the founder and chief executive officer of the local and
global reality company. She's also a founder and board member of the Russian culture. As you
have heard also for many years, she has served as executive director and board member of the
entire Cleveland cultural organization. Besides that, she is also a board member of the
Cleveland B and she is also an executive director of the Cleveland Summer Stars summer
music, dance and arts festival. From this list alone, you can see that Slana is an
individual of many talents, but I would like to highlight her one and unique gift. She has a
unique gift and ability to bring together and unite people of different cultural
backgrounds, different views and opinions to work together on common goals. This is I
believe a very exceptional talent that she has especially during this time when world feels
so separated. She also never keeps time. She stays committed to the goal even when she is
sick or she is feeling that her ability to complete the task is maybe not missing her
physical strengths. So let me also provide you with a brief information about Slana's
background education so that you can better understand how she was able to accomplish so
spent her school years in law school where she received a formal music education during her
secondary schooling nurturing her lifelong love of music. She ran on then to continue her
education at Mos State University, the number one university in the former Soviet Union and
present day Russia and that we share. So we where she studied western philosophy. After
graduation, she went to join an academic institution, an institute of psychology and
potentially thought that she will stay as a scientist for the rest of her life. But this was
actually the history of the Soviet Union when the so-called was brought into power and the
development. And so during the story realized that she has a lot of possibilities and
opportunities in front of her and this is where she started her first business venture and
this was in 1989. 10 years later she came to Cleveland where she started her new life and a
career in real estate brokerage and investment. in Cleveland played a pivotal role in
attracting international investors to Cleveland and promoting the Cro. She was frequently
invited to Russia in Ukraine as a consultant, a speaker in real estate conferences where she
also taught master classes. Her contributions of course extended far beyond her professional
activity. As I mentioned, she was very actual active in the Cleveland community as the vice
president of the Cleveland cultural. But besides that, SL is a passion entrepreneur and also
investor. We actually support scientific innovation particularly in the field of the
research. And this is where we met some years ago when we started a company that uses
innovative approaches for concerts and has been supporting our company since then and very
much interested in her she was coming along with the development of the company. So please
join me. I am so deeply honored and of course to stand here tonight. You know the story 7
months ago. Just ago, our dear friends and our angel from the day, moment stage and I and I
sure of what tomorrow will bring. This simple vision gave me something to hold on to and
that was the hope that brought me here. Throughout my life I was incredibly fortunate. I was
fortunate to be accepted to the university back in 1981. I was fortunate to experience this
program. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. I see and strangely familiar in the main building of my own
university where I Heat. Heat. Heat. I almost I see you. America, but to me it is one of the
most international places I've ever known. Our cultures build rages and nowhere is it more
visible than our human culture for to be one of three fathers of they are here Tonight they
left the city but their spirit remains and they still here supporting the guards together
with our work and volunteers. We build and there are in 2018 station and the war of Russian
culture over fears that are on the stones. Yeah. Today we s Yeah. Heat. Star War Yeah. Heat.
or and of course we want to bring this culture to Cleveland because shape and natural but
all today's knowledge culture and religion to this society All of our volunteers again I I
have no words to not enough words to thank you for doing what you are doing. Oh my friends,
thank you so much. new this year this this 2025 season it's international and this year they
competition in our I feel very proud that we are bringing down people from not just local
regional and from all over the world to Cleveland. Introduce Cleveland to this new audience
and it's a great honor to do it. Give me a second life. I'm here because real soldiers work
for cancer research and they do research like this And thank you to our beautiful It shows
God to answer. But we know that there is hope and this hope is for everybody especially
thanks to this city that we live in and that we contribute in. And of course I want to uh
give my personal and biggest thank you to my family to my son who always is beside me and my
mother is almost years old and she's here. She could not make it today unfortunately. But I
thank you for your wisdom and love. Tonight I stand here filled with hope for my own journey
and for the future. We are all created together because the greatest gift we can offer each
other is exactly what I have received. A reason to believe, a reason to heal, and a reason
to create. Every story of courage and contribution deserves to be part of this hall of fame.
Thank you for Heat up here.
