Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/bill-miller-2017/bill-miller-2017_7AjUc16ao90.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T17:17:31.161Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

So other people want to honor them too. Each inductee tonight will get a proclamation
available on wallpaper or room. We have a proclamation for the inductees from Cleveland
Mayor Frank Jackson, Cleveland City Council, courtesy of the Council of Zone, Ohio State
Senator Tom Catton, Governor John Kasich, Congresswoman Marzia Fudge, Congresswoman Marzia
Fatter, Senator Rob Portman, Senator Sherrod Brown, Congressman David Joyce, State Auditor
David Yost, County Executive Armand Boudish, and Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine. So all
of you, you're one of the first graduating students in the district of Ohio. You'll also
receive your official Cleveland International Hall of Fame lapel pin. You'll see a lot of
the inductees wearing that and you'll get your award. So what happens is we call up the
inductor, gives the remarks, not a bio, that's in the book and on the web page. The inductor
then gives you awards for the inductee, they post for the photos, looking at ads first, and
the new Hall of Fame will speak. So let's get started, tell me when you want to get the ball
rolling. It is such a great honor to see all of you here for the eighth induction of the
Cleveland International Hall of Fame and I am thrilled to be able to start this with
inviting August Coos to come up here. August is going to induct Phil Miller and in this
case, his wife, Mariah. August Coos himself was inducted into the inaugural class of the
Hall of Fame back in 2010. His long career as ethnic affairs international relations advisor
and leader started with Cleveland mayors, then the governors, then the senators and
eventually President George W. Bush. He has earned more awards and recognitions than we can
count on, including the Citizen diplomat from the National Council for International
Visitors. My pleasure to introduce to you my friend, August Coos. Hello Cleveland people.
This is the picture of how the rest of the world should see what good see, Cleveland City is
all about. Cleveland people and the reflection of this Cleveland people, it's right here at
the podium today. These are the tools that we can put together and call it Cleveland Museum.
This is the work of art for Cleveland. And today when we talk about Cleveland people, let's
go back two decades or more to remember how we have met each other. Where were we when we
met each other? And who was the person who introduced us to different cultures and different
people? And was he the one who wrote about us and if we did not know how we have to do it
with his column in a theater, we learned about events where and how we hope. He was the one
who made us knowing each other and learn about our place in the city of history, our
neighborhood, our churches, our community. But to look at that, not only that he was a
lifelong promoter of Cleveland and the one who knew Cleveland very well, I would like to
paint two little pictures of Bill Miller which illustrates so much of the man he was.
Remember our own National Festival? They started right here in the front of this building
and a mall between this hotel and City Hall. He was the master of ceremonies. He knew the
people and we listened to people coming on the stage and listened to accordioners,
tambourines, sitars, trumpets, and of course a lot of everything else, pipes and drums. So
there he was introducing the people of Cleveland to the people of Cleveland. But they're not
comparing to what he did in downtown in Playhouse Square on the top of the stage of State
Theater. This is where he introduced the groups, the best of our performing groups on the
stage where he played an important role of preserving state theater and theaters in
Playhouse Square with the leader of the game, the pride of Cleveland and some of the best
theaters in the nation. He did it because he saved and worked on a theater restoration,
preservation of theaters. He knew the people and people who came to the stage performed what
Cleveland was to the best. It was a colleague presentation of Cleveland. But to know Bill
Miller in a personal site, especially as our dear and my dear friend, let's go back to
summer festivals in Cleveland, neighborhood, church, community festivals. And oh yeah, of
course, there were beer festivals. Picture this, October fest, beer festival. And before all
the dignitaries came on the stage, there was Bill Miller right in the front stage. Before
all the judges, mayors, the governors, even the president came on the stage, there was Bill
Miller. In one hand, he had the beer sign. Another hand, he took off his hat. He put it over
his heart and started singing God Bless America. That was our anthem. God bless America. And
today, that blessing is also with us. And we'd like to, on behalf of all of us, show our
appreciation and our gratitude to Mary Ann Miller, representing the family, Mark Miller, her
son. That on behalf of all of us, we can extend our sincere gratitude and congratulations to
the family and to remember Bill Miller with God Bless America and to us, people of
Cleveland. God bless you. Mary Ann Miller. Okay, look this way, please. Over this way. Two
days. My Yana Shazi, we love you. Turn to your Lord. There we go. And then straight across.
Anybody else? Okay, yes, let's do it. They sprinted on me very fast. I didn't know the first
point. But, anyway, thank you for all this wonderful, warm interaction. I can actually feel,
feel, feel smiling. You would have been so proud. And thank you, this whole organization,
especially Debbie Hansen, for this wonderful event and for this honor. I feel very
privileged to accept this fulfill. You would have been so proud. Thank you very much. Thank
you all for coming. And I have met some people again tonight that I haven't been for 20
years. It was wonderful. It was just so great to see all of you again. And thank you for
coming. And I also want to thank the organization for making this possible and all the work
they do, especially Debbie Hansen. And I want to thank my late friends for coming. And my
son, Mark, and his beautiful lady, Mary. And Mark just came here to settle for a new life in
Cleveland. We work in Seattle. And I appreciate all your love and your support. Thank you so
much. The other time for making this in New York, but he's here in spirit. And yes, Billy,
we love you too. Anyway, and last but not least, I want to thank all of the others in that
piece tonight. Congratulations. And I met some of you and the wonderful people. And they do
a great job. So thank you for everything. And please enjoy the rest of the evening. Because
I'm the first. I'm not going to make comments on each of the people. I do have to say
something because it's Bill's story. And I wrote about it in the book. But the last time
that I saw Bill Miller was at a party in a market one through a supermarket out there
somewhere. But it was a holiday party. And he saw me and he put his arm around me and
started to sing Danny Boy. He sang a whole song. Just belted it out top of his lungs and
everyone just stood and watched and applauded. And that was Bill Miller. He just he was a
man of the people. And there won't be another one like him. So this one.
