Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/andy-chakalis-2026/andy-chakalis-2026_bS3656smMfM.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T14:18:00.693Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

Ms. Torres, congratulations to you. Our second inductee into the Cleveland International
Hall of Fame tonight is Andy Chicolis. >> [applause] >> The first Greek to be inducted into
the Cleveland International Hall of Fame. He will be inducted by Mr. Lou Frangos, the
chairman of the Frangos Group, president of the Greek Garden Association of Cleveland. Mr.
Frangos, come on up. >> [applause] >> So, thank you all. It's an honor to be up here to to
be able to introduce Andy, but what I'm going to say in 2 minutes won't suffice. Uh uh
there's a program book which is a little more elaborate and will tell you a little bit more
about Andy and what a wonderful person he is, but my brief, very briefly, Good evening,
everyone. Uh what a joy it is to be celebrating here with you tonight for uh the class this
2026 class of the Hall of Fame. It's a special honor for me to introduce Andy Chicolis, the
first Greek American inducted into this esteemed hall. >> [cheering] >> Uh I have known Andy
for decades, and I can tell you he's one of those rare individuals who somehow manages to do
everything and do it well. Artist, mentor, preservationist, [snorts] community leader, and
somehow still finds the time to be genuinely kind and humble human being, which frankly is
the most important part. Whether serving as president of the Hellenic Preservation Society,
working alongside his wonderful wife Faith at the Greek Garden Association, where they
helped lead the complete restoration of the Greek Cultural Garden, whether preserving
historic iconography, organizing unique exhibits of the Cleveland Museum of Art, or creating
his own studio, or mentoring students across the globe from Italy, Japan, Taiwan, and right
here in Cleveland, Ohio, Andy brings the same thing to everything he does, a self- a
selfless passion to make the world a better better place than he found it. There is a quote
attributed to Dostoevsky, "Beauty will save the world." Andy doesn't just believe that, he
lives it. But as meaningful as his work has been, I would argue that Andy's greatest impact
isn't in the art he's created or the institutions he's helped build. It's in the people he's
inspired, the students he's mentored, and the countless lives he's touched along the way. At
his core, Andy is a family man who carries forward the values installed in him by his
parents, a deep love, a strong work ethic, and a rich blending of his Slovenian and Greek
heritage, with special devotion to the Greek traditions. Those roots help shape the man
we're honoring tonight. And if you ever spent a few minutes with Andy, you'd know he just
doesn't create beauty, he brings it out in others. So tonight, it's my privilege to
introduce the man who not only is deserving of this honor, but has quietly been earning it
for a lifetime. As we say in Greek, Axios. Please join me in welcoming Andy Chipalos. >>
[applause] >> I want to thank Lou for the kind introduction. And to thank the International
Hall of Fame Committee for this recognition. And congratulations to my fellow inductees. My
father immigrated from Greece, the island of Evia, Stropones, a hilltop village. He worked
hard, chef, owner of a few restaurants throughout his career, and married my mother who was
of Slovenian heritage. She adopted the Greek traditions and even mastered the Greek
language. I was fortunate enough to have a broader view of two ethnic backgrounds growing
up. Cleveland, my home, is where I was first introduced to a mixture of different ethnic
families, Eastern European, Jewish, Italian, etc. Ethnic identity became a normal way of
life for me. A mixture of different cultures all learning from each other. My exposure to
the different ethnic ethnicities sparked an interest in foreign study and the chance to
further my educational experiences. I also had an early interest in architecture and art
which prompted me to explore studio art and art history with sculpture becoming my study
major. Looking first to study locally, but then I considered European opportunities. France,
Italy, England. I determined Italy would provide me with the best opportunity to continue my
interest and pursuit of visual arts. Italy represented to me a cultural bridge, historically
speaking. I was fortunate enough to receive my advanced education in Italy after being
accepted into the Academy of Fine Arts in Florence, Italy. I made a trip to Europe on a
freighter, 14 days ocean travel, landing in Greece and then moving to Italy at the cost of
$175 in 1960 in the '60s. Mind-boggling. My first academic year started in the fall of 1996
when Florence experienced the historic flood in November of that year. Needless to say, my
studies were interrupted briefly, about 2 weeks before the university resumed classes.
Everyone who was able to able did whatever they could to help with the recovery. I still
remember carrying damaged paintings from the Uffizi Museum to the Pitti Palace, which was on
the higher ground for safe storage. And helping with the transportation of waterlogged books
from the Biblioteca. They were ultimately transported to Città di Castello and placed in
tobacco chambers to begin the drying process. Unfortunately, many did not survive. This
disaster resulted in the international community coming together to help restore the damage
done to the works of art, sculptures, and architecture. The impact to art conservation is
still being felt today. But one cannot forget the loss of life that resulted from this
disaster. After my formal studies in Florence, I was accepted as assistant working in the
studio of Arnaldo Pomodoro in Milan. I was able to experience the work resulting in his
one-man exhibitions in London, New York, and Milan. Arnaldo Pomodoro first became
internationally recognized for his sculpture when he won the Venice Biennale in 1956.
Arnaldo passed away in June of last year at the age of 98. My time in Italy provided me with
the chance to study the dynamics of the 14th century Florence experience and Milan offered
and is considered the little New York of Europe, more cosmopolitan and industrial. Upon
returning to Cleveland, I joined the staff of the Cleveland Museum of Art and eventually
became an associate curator of the extensions division. This department was started in 1914
prior to the opening of the Cleveland Museum of Art to the public in 1916. As a commitment
as a commitment to art education, the department's collection of over 16,000 objects was
used for educational programming programs covering all media and eras of Western and Asian
art. This collection on its own could be a standalone museum in any city in the United
States. It included a range of materials from folk arts to Dutch ceramics, African masks,
Eskimo art, etc. Our projects included lending European folk art textiles to the Robertson
Center for the Arts and Sciences in Binghamton, New York to support the exhibition Goddesses
and their offspring, 19th and 20th century Eastern European embroideries. And organizing
Flying Images, A Child's View, which was an exchange of drawings of daily life between the
elementary students of the Cleveland school system and Odawara, Japan. Other extension
exhibitions held at the Cleveland Museum of Art frequently highlighted Cleveland's cultural
heritage with notable shows such as Progressive Vision, The Planning of Downtown Cleveland,
1903 to 1930, The Age of Elegance, 1880 to 1914, and The Order of Things, A History of the
Column. I was a guest lecturer at the Taiwan Museum of Art discussing collections and
educational outreach programs. In the late '80s, one of our department volunteers and a
member of the museum's Junior Council, Mrs. Helen Collis, >> [cheering] >> And I were asked
by the CMA board to support the exhibition Holy Image, Holy Space: Icons and Frescoes from
Greece. We formed a committee representing four local Greek churches, which energized the
community and raised significant financial support for the exhibition. This group became the
nucleus for the Hellenic Preservation Society of Northeast Ohio, an organization dedicated
an organization dedicated to promoting Hellenism and Greek culture. As a founding member of
HPS, I was introduced to the Greek Cultural Garden by Mr. Pete Katanis. He was the Cultural
Garden Federation Greek Garden representative. After viewing the garden and understanding
its historical importance, HPS undertook the responsibility of the renovation and replanting
of the garden, becoming the first ethnic organization to undertake responsibility for its
ethnic garden. Everyone here who is involved with their garden knows and understands the
work that is involved in restoration and the ongoing maintenance. We, HPS, approached this
project as if we were restoring a fine work of art, being certain to do no harm. We selected
landscape architect Mr. Jim McKnight to develop a new landscape plan based off the original
garden plan. Then the work began. Funds were raised and a block grant was received to repair
the stone infrastructure, replanting with the help of KeyBank's Neighbors Make a Difference
Day, and new urns were uh constructed and adjacent to the poet's bench on the west slope. We
secured the services of Mr. Sal Buscemi, stone specialist, for the stone infrastructure. His
father was one of the original stone masons that worked on the gardens during their early
construction. Weekly, volunteers helped with ongoing garden maintenance, planting, spring,
fall cleanup. While I can't remember everyone, we should recognize the Gates Mills
Horticultural School, whose students worked here to gain some practical experience. Helen
Janusa, Mike Kapourales, Gus Poulos, Duke and Gail Perry Yojanis. And we can't say enough
about the lunches Gail would pack. She made certain there was enough food for all of the
volunteers working on that day. And probably the person who volunteered most often was Jimmy
Watson, and there are many others who I know I am failing to mention. Volunteer time was not
restricted to work. We always found time to strengthen friendships with each other and the
community. HPS was instrumental in planning and in in the installation of new flag poles for
the gardens, funded by the Cleveland Cultural Garden Federation, which was undertaken in
preparation for the city's bicentennial. In 1996, the Greek community hosted the Cultural
Gardens One World Day celebration. An official ceremony was held at the Greek Garden, and in
honor of the city's birthday, the newly renovated garden was rededicated and presented to
Mayor Michael R. White. Through our commitment, it became apparent that there should be new
efforts to encourage more ethnic communities to become involved and possibly establish new
gardens. As was the hopes of HPS when undertaking this project, the new gardens would be
realized. The India garden was dedicated in 2005. It was the first garden in 20 years since
the Chinese garden was dedicated in 1985. Since then, a number of new gardens have been
established. I won't attempt to name them for fear of forget forgetting one, but I think the
number is either 10 or 11. Needless to say, the cultural gardens continue to grow. It was
during this period that Richard Konisiewicz, assistant to the mayor of Michael R. White,
shared an early drawing of the original cultural gardens at one of the Cultural Garden
Federation meetings. At the bottom of the page in the center was an illustration of a
freeze. Although I didn't realize its importance at the time, it was enough to make me start
some research. Research began on the freeze and found that it was conceived by sculptor
Andrew T. Teggaris in 1939. The image entitled The Gift of Greece to Civilization was
adopted as the letterhead of the Grecian Garden Association at that time. 34 immortals
immortals depicted in the freeze were selected by the artist in collaboration with Dr. J. J.
Mussoff of Case School of Applied Science and Professor C. P. Bill of the Classics
Department of Western Reserve University. These two institutions subsequently merged and are
today are known as Case Western Reserve University. Proposals were put together on what
effort it would take to fully realize the freeze as originally planned and presented to the
Hellenic Preservation Board. We researched potential stone carvers and identified Mr.
Nicholas Fairplay as the most qualified being born and educated in his craft in Great
Britain. We are pleasantly surprised to find him here in our own backyard. As we all know,
projects of this magnitude take a while to be realized. In 2022, responsibility for the
Greek Cultural Garden was transferred to newly formed Greek Garden Association of Cleveland
under the leadership of Mr. Lou Frangos, which HPS continues with its support. I am pleased
to say that through his efforts and belief in the project as its historic value and those of
James Primes and many more individuals within the Greek community and beyond. And I do
apologize for failing to mention everyone. Funds have been raised and we are confident that
the freeze will be installed in the not too distant future. To conclude, I once again am
honored for this recognition. Thank you. Oh, certainly. >> [sighs] >> Mr. Nikolas Mr.
Nikolas, congratulations to you.
