Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/jack-kahl-2016/jack-kahl-2016_eKdfG3zz9Os.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T17:17:31.149Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

I came with an idea and I threw it out as I was listening and looking here. I introduced
Father Jim O'Donnell here four years ago and him to the back, but I will be next year and
the year after that because what I realized sitting up here today looking around is a good
view. All these people are all from different races but we're all the ones who have been
with us. And the person I want to pay my deepest respect to tonight is my mother. As I'm
sitting there saying we're a black lady without the example that she set. My father got sick
with tuberculosis and spent six years in a hospital with some acres. We lost our house. We
were never afraid because she never had a speech. And we ended up in the projects on almost
25th Street and she would say, "Jackie, you're the man of the house until today, "consult.
What does that mean, Mom?" I had no idea. I was seven years old at point six and a half. She
said, "It means you got to get a job, Jackie. You got to bring some money in the house with
that." That's where my career started. Thank God for Mom. And I went out and I knocked on
doors and I got a big group with two customers. And I built that up to three or four and
then it paid quick with five and pretty soon I had ten or twelve customers. And I had a big
group no matter where I was. When my dad got out of the hospital years later, we moved out
to the airport and a house that fell down after the first sanctuary there, the garage
collapsed out of my father's car, which was a 20-year-old car at the time. And we all
happened until he grabbed us in the ears. My brother and I, I think that was funny because
that was the whole family walk that he had just thrown up. But the beginnings of all that
teaches you to be a family and to work. And the money that I made gave to my mother. That
was the whole way we did. Everybody that got a job, Theresa Baby-Sapp, she gave it to Mom.
It was family that was going to win. Well, that sort of sunk into me. And I started a
business later. I worked for a guy. I was the first guy to ever work for this gentleman. And
he was running an 80,000-hour business. Pretty soon, he started cheating me. I walked up to
him once and I said, "Mr. So-and-so, I don't mind that. Please don't do that again because
I'm probably not going to work for you." He said, "No." The second time, several months
later, he sure did me a hug. What I knew I had coming, I just walked in and I said,
"So-and-so, I can't do this. I can't work for you because I don't trust you and I don't
respect you. So I'm quitting." And don't worry about your damn business. I will find
something else to do. I'm not going to steal this business from you. He called me about
three or four days later and he says, "Jack, I've had two offers for the business. I had no
idea whether it was true or not." But he says, "It's probably worth more to you than anybody
else. By this time, I had built this little $80,000 business up to about $7 million." And he
had no clue, you know, where it was coming from. So I sat down with some bankers, my
brother-in-law, Jim Forshey, and Cleveland Trust, and he says, "I want to know the problems
before I know the successes so I can help if I ever get to that point." And that's how we
started. And so I'm sitting here tonight looking at all these different people from all
these different places that are all now wanting this room being recognized in our city. And
I'm like, "Yeah." It hits me that we all have to be good to one another. And as time went by
in my business, there wasn't too much time. I said, "If Mom did this and we got a nickel on
Sunday's ice cream cone, we'd run up to the store and buy nickel ice cream cone." And that
was a big day. My sister and I would maybe even get a candy bar and spit it and sit down the
corner up there. It was amazing the way you started seeing the things that are important to
you. And it was about being a family and working together. So Mom started sharing when I got
to the next step, and I started making success happen at the company we all work. I shared
the wealth with them. 30 percent of everything that I made went to the employees. So the way
we did it, I said, "If we're going to work as hard as we're all going to work, then we're
all going to be rewarded for it." And so that was the beginning of our success. The bankers,
some of the bankers I had said, "Oh, you can't do that. You shouldn't do that." I said,
"Well, this is the way we're going to do it." So you have to have a belief in yourself and a
belief in other people. And if you're going to ask them to work as hard as you are going to
work, then you're going to share it with them. And that went on for many, many, many years
until we sold the company to a big conglomerate. And I retired. My sons were still there.
They bought the company back with another fellow who made our update from the first day I
ever walked in there. And he still made it in force, and now that's a joint effort between
the two of us. And the business has still run the same way. Everybody in that company that
works there but south is part of it, and they just paid for it. So I'm proud of my mother.
I'm super proud of my dad and the family that taught me how to be successful. And I have
something that we're going to change it. And I hope it strikes some of you the same way,
because you can hear all the so-called experts that come in start telling you how to run a
business. You can't run fast enough to get away from half of a business. They're telling you
how to be a customer, how to screw you to voice. You can make more money. Ask not how you do
it. Ask for redemption. So everybody here tonight, congratulations. It's beautiful to hear
these stories. And it's beautiful that we're in these families. We don't see color, we just
see people. So congratulations to all of us for being here.
