Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/andy-fedynsky-2026/andy-fedynsky-2026_Kp2oRe3w1EM.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T14:18:00.701Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

To you Dennis, congratulations to you. Our next inductee tonight is Mr. Andy Fedynsky. >>
[applause] >> He will be inducted by Dr. George Yaskiw, the president of United Ukrainian
Organizations of Ohio. Dr. Yaskiw. Thank you, Dan. Um I was told to take no more than 3
minutes to summarize Andy's accomplishments, which is going to be a really difficult task,
but I'll do my best. I'll just mention quickly that he was a teacher in the schools of
Cleveland. He taught Ukrainian school in Parma on Saturdays. He went on to work with Mary
Rose Oakar in Congress. He became an advocate. And what the thread linking him in his life
to his presence today is a steadfast commitment to human dignity [clears throat] and liberty
and a deep respect for the past that shapes who we are today. Back before the fall of
communism, he protested in Yugoslavia and got arrested for it, but took the risk. And then
he undertook what he got a little older, what I see as his crowning achievement, and that is
the bringing to fruition the Ukrainian Museum Archives in Tremont. I moved to Cleveland 35
years ago and I heard there was a museum and I paid it a visit. Looked a little shabby, down
on its luck. But I went inside anyways and I met an amazing man who said to me, "Oh, you're
new. Let me show you something." And he dragged me up to the attic. It was dusty, dimly lit,
with old knob and tube wiring everywhere. There were waist-high stacks of boxes, papers,
newspapers, photographs, books, and we walked down through narrow pathways between them. The
floor creaked with every step, and I had two concerns. Would the joists hold? And if the
wiring started a fire, could I get out in time? Andy had only one concern. He kept saying
with excitement, "Look at this. Look what we have here." And he would pull out a pamphlet or
a book or a photograph or a letter. And before I could absorb what was in one, he'd be on to
the next. Well, today the Ukrainian Museum Archives is recognized internationally as a
cultural historical jewel. Scholars come from around the world to study materials that in
many cases were available no place else. Now, looking back, we often assume that things
happened because they had to happen. They were inevitable. But nothing was inevitable in the
museum's success. It required the efforts of many. I'll just mention the late Taras Myhailo
Sr., whom we inducted into the Hall of Fame a few years ago and who also [clears throat] was
part of this process. And I'm going to recognize his family that's here at the table today.
I'm also going to recognize >> [applause] >> Andy's wonderful family, Olha and Stefan his
wonderful children, and his steadfast wife his steadfast wife can stand up. >> [applause and
cheering] >> But above all, that success, which was not inevitable, came about because of
you, Andriy. You had the vision to see treasures where others myself included saw dusty
boxes and mold. You brought order to what seemed beyond organizing. You saw the value of
relationships and you taught me that. Within our community, outside, with civic leaders,
ethnic allies, political legislators and others, how relationships and [clears throat]
alliances are what make us stronger together and what lead to success. And the mentorship of
the younger people, students from high school, college and beyond. But most importantly, you
took a huge risk. Some folks risk money. Some like me risk a bit of volunteer time. But you
risked the better part of your adult life. And you succeeded. There's a verse in the Gospel
of Matthew. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. So we know where your
heart is. Through your love for your family, your Ukrainian heritage, for Cleveland, and for
our United States, you preserved something essential. The story of America. People seeking
liberty, freedom of expression, freedom of worship, a rightful place in the sun in a place
where law is held. That story matters deeply to all of us who are here from different parts
and through our parents and grandparents. And it matters today deeply to us as the Russian
Federation seeks to erase the very idea of the Ukrainian people and to delegitimize the
Ukrainian-American experience. But they will not succeed. They will not succeed because of
people like you and because Americans of all backgrounds remain committed to defending human
dignity and liberty at home and abroad. Andy, >> [applause] [cheering] >> you have preserved
the story of the Ukrainian American community in Ohio. But in truth, it's a story of
America. It's an American story. It's the quintessential story of who we all are here,
whether we came with the pilgrims, we came later, or we're coming today. So, on behalf of
the Ukrainian American community of Ohio, and indeed on behalf of all who work to realize
the goodness, greatness, and possibilities of America, I induct you into the Cleveland
National Hall of Fame. >> [applause] >> Well, thank you, Doug. Thank you, Newton. Um he
already mentioned my wife and life partner, Christine, my children. Uh he didn't mention my
brother, Pete, uh or my cousin, Nick, so he's there. Uh I'd also like to acknowledge uh
Bishop Bohdan Danylo, who's here. Uh Father Mykolajewsky, uh Pastor Mariusz from the
Ukrainian Orthodox Cathedral, and uh uh Father Andrew of um St. Peter and Paul Ukrainian
Catholic Church in the Tremont neighborhood, which has been there now for 116 years. >>
[applause] >> You know, I uh growing up in the Cleveland uh I grew up in the Ukrainian
community. I went to Saturday school since I was 7 years old, uh Ukrainian Scouts, and my
cousin Nick was my counselor, uh and uh went to church on Sunday at St. Peter and Paul, uh
had various concerts, commemorations, uh and summer camps, and so on. Growing up, my
parents, our parents, emphasized the preservation and respect for Ukrainian culture. And we
were also inculcated with a mission to defend and promote the concept of Ukraine's
independence during a period when it was mired deep into totalitarian Soviet Union, Soviet
Ukraine. Uh it was unthinkable to speak English to my parents. We respected the language
even as we became 100% Americans. Uh and if you wanted to really see what America looks
like, just here it is. Here it is. >> [applause] >> And so growing up in the Ukrainian
community the way I did, I was also a Cleveland Indians fan, Cleveland Browns. Used to go to
McDonald's. So on. The same thing other Americans did and continue to do. Now we're rooting
for the Guardians. But at the same time preserving our culture. Those of you who are a
certain age will remember being in grade school and having security drills where the teacher
would say, "Okay, >> [clears throat] >> duck under the desk." Because the Soviets are going
to drop a nuclear weapon on us as if that was going to save us. But what it did was mobilize
a society in the Cold War. And our community in partnership with other ethnic communities
which were equally dedicated to their heritage and to the mission of freeing their countries
from tyranny. And so I worked along with other Ukrainian Americans, Lithuanians, Jews,
Poles, just whatever nationality was incorporated into the Captive Nations Month. So every
every year we do demonstrations and so on and uh that for me uh I was a teacher in Cleveland
Public School System, but I translated Ukrainian literature uh went across around the Iron
Curtain including one memorable trip with my brother Pete to to meet dissidents right at the
Ukrainian-Polish border right across from uh totalitarian Ukraine uh and that led for me to
career on Capitol Hill where I got to work towards uh liberation for countries like
Lithuania that is Ingrid uh a lifelong friend uh Jimmy Katerenchuk Romanian he's here
somewhere uh and I became aware of the value that we had at the Ukrainian Museum Archives
which was established in 1952 when Stalin was still alive and Ukrainian culture as well as
others were being deliberately destroyed and so having been raised to preserve Ukrainian
culture I was okay I'll become director of Ukrainian Museum Archives uh all those events
that we undertook in Cleveland were mirrored in communities all around the world and those
little events here and then around the world and the dissident movement human rights
movement in Soviet-occupied countries it became a movement and that movement became a
revolution and in 1991 the lifelong dream which my parents unfortunately didn't live to see
was Ukraine's independence. And that's where all the contacts that Dr. Jaschkiw Yuri talked
about Ukrainian The Ukrainian Museum was not particularly interested to anybody until
Ukraine became independent. And then it became very topical, very interesting. And of course
today Ukraine is renewing the fight for its independence, for freedom, and I might add uh
the same things that we were fighting for as Americans in the Cold War. International order,
freedom, and so on and and the same activities that we undertook in the '70s continue to
this day. Lobbying our elected officials uh like uh Representative Brett uh Gran and who's
here uh and uh working with other communities uh preserving our way of life and Ukraine's
independence. So in accepting this award, I'd like to do it on behalf of the thousands and
thousands of Ukrainians over the years and years who worked towards that goal uh along with
those who are working for the same purpose now. Thank you so very much. Slava Ukraini.
