Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/wael-khoury-2017/wael-khoury-2017_OAZ7t2i1W10.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T17:17:31.171Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

Would Dr. Zane, Dr. Khoury please. Dr. Nizar Zane is going to induct Dr. Wael Khoury. Dr.
Nizar Zane is the chairman and medical director of his global patient services at Cleveland
Clinic. He's the chief of hepatology and medical director of liver transplantation at
Cleveland Clinic. He's also well known for his academic achievements, his active inmates at
the local, national and international levels. Dr. Nizar Zane will induct Dr. Wael Khoury.
Thank you for the kind invitation to do this presentation. With all the strength and wisdom
of Wael, I think he made a mistake by choosing me to do this presentation. But in fact, to
be truthful, on Saturday I spent almost an entire day trying to write remarks. I tried to
think of Wael and since I met him, what I know about him, what he had done. And it ended up
being probably seven or eight pages and then I had to cut it down. So he is a very
accomplished person. So it is very humbling and a great honor to introduce someone I have
admired for so many years. And I hope he was inspired to reach the standards he set and
achieved himself. For that I thank you all. He is un-exordinally outstanding and outstanding
in many ways. Dr. Khoury is blessed with an enormous self-confidence that had its roots in
his knowledge, skills and in his great intellectual capabilities. His mind has sort of
unshaken with voice and serenity that helped him remain unfilled and true to his principles.
As he represented and passionately defended the values of a structured woman and a divided
Syrian American society. At his level of honesty, elegance and cultural refinement, he was
above those strategies. Dr. Wael Khoury was and continues to be the glue of our local
diverse Arab American society here in Cleveland. It was once said that the apen does not
fall far from the tree. Dr. Wael Khoury and his father are undoubtedly made from the same
cloth. The late Mr. Shahada Khoury is an intellectual icon in Syria and across the Arab
world. He was a leader in modernizing Arabic language for its use in contemporary sciences.
Clearly Wael was heavily and positively influenced by his father's passion for knowledge and
acquired many of his leadership skills. As a distinguished member of the local medical
community for many years, Dr. Khoury served as the President of Cardiology Associates of
Cleveland and as the Head of Cardiology at Merriman Hospital for over 130 consecutive years.
He was appointed as the Chief of Staff at Merriman between 1993 and 1995 and as the Vice
President for Medical Affairs between 1995 and 2001. Arguably, one of his best
accomplishments during these years was his successful petitioning at the state level for
hospitals with less than 250 dead capacity to have cardiac catheterization facilities. This
achievement saved many lives when patients did not have the luxury of time to be transferred
to larger medical centers. But that's not why we are here tonight. We are here tonight to
acknowledge the many contributions of the man with an inherent and true passion for public
service. Dr. Wael Khoury embodies all the values of public servants working for the common
good for social progress and equality. It was his passion for public service that led Dr.
Khoury nearly 20 years ago to join the Cleveland Council on the Board of Affairs at CCWA.
With whom he shared a vision and a mission. Soon he became a member of the board at CCWA and
ever since has actively worked to promote the Council's mission. That is to inspire
engagement in international affairs and work culture through education, public dialogue and
citizen diplomacy. Wael served as the Chairman of the Board of CCWA between 2012 and 2015
and resumed his position again in 2016. As a Chairman, Wael never sees to us how the Council
can reach out to more Clevelanders, especially the youth. CCWA's modern United Nations
program now brings nearly 54 schools and 1,800 students. Dr. Wael Khoury also put his heart
and soul into ensuring that Cleveland gains an awareness and benefits of serious rich and
colorful culture. Thus he became the founding President of the Syrian American Cultural
Council in 2005. Out of that we never knew the vision of having a Syrian garden among
Cleveland's great cultural gardens along Martin Luther King Boulevard. Wael saw his dream
fulfilled in September of 2015 with the official inauguration of the Unmagnificent Syrian
Garden, a worthy tribute to the deep history and culture of Syria. Recently, thanks to his
time as commitment to the concept of cultural gardens Dr. Khoury was elected to be the
President of the Executive Board of the Cleveland Cultural Gardens Federation. In fact, I
believe he started his role this month or last month. As we celebrate the accomplishments of
Wael, it would quantity a half-finished presentation without speaking of the woman besides
him, who will not met you but with Wael. I don't know how that makes me feel. His wife
Sousa, and I talked with Sousa, and I talked with Speed and Earth on her own. Not only is it
a symbol of elegance and class, Sousa, the inspiration and the energy that keeps Wael
enthusiastically working on his many projects. This is apparent to all of us who were
privileged to spend a lot of time with the Khoury family. Sousa is an educator by profession
and a dedicated civic leader promoting our city through her own work with the Cleveland Film
Festival among several other societies and foundations. Sousa also ensures that Wael is up
and working all night long. This may be interpreted in many different ways. But what I meant
by it is that if you know Wael, Khoury, you always receive emails from Wael between 2 and 5
AM. And you can't help but wonder what this man ever sees. In fact, at night between 2 and 5
AM, there are only two types of communication. Tweets from President Trump's and emails from
Trump's. So we said earlier that the apple does not fall far from the tree. The legacy of
Wael would undoubtedly continue into the next generation of Khoury family. Sousa and Wael
are less than four lovely and equally as accomplished children, not only achievers by every
academic standard, but filled with their parents' aspirations for civil and community
service and for the honorable purpose of bridging acts among culture. Two of the four
children, Rana and Tz Tz
