Congratulations, Mr. Pedanski. Our next guest. It's okay. Give him a Give him a round of
applause. Sorry, it's right there. I apologize. Our next inductee this evening is Catherine
Jorgenson McCutchan. Another fun fact, she is the first Norwegian to be inducted to the
Cleveland International Hall of Fame. To induct her this evening is someone who also knows
her very well, her daughter, Karen McCutchan. Hi. My name's Karen McCutchan, and today it's
my honor to introduce my mother, Catherine Jorgenson McCutchan. You can read all about her
many accomplishments, contributions to the international community here in Cleveland, and
her impact on young people in Cleveland. Um so, instead I'm going to share just one story of
many stories that people could say about my mother, Kathy. It's short, I promise. Catherine
McCutchan was a teacher at Lakewood High School for many years. At one point, she had a
recently immigrated student from Romania. At a time when no one was getting out of Romania.
So, that was probably a harrowing journey. This girl had her heart set on going to the
University of Rochester, but she had received no funding or scholarships as a new immigrant.
Her father, who had a doctorate in engineering from Romania, was working as a janitor here
in Cleveland. So, there was no money uh to cover college tuition from the family. Kathy
spent two full days on the phone with the admissions committee at University of Rochester. I
don't know what kind of arm twisting she was doing. But after those two days, that student
had a full ride for 4 years to the University of Rochester. >> [applause] >> And her father
had a job offer. To this day, this family still does not know how all this came to be.
Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to introduce you to Katherine McCutcheon. >> [applause] >>
This is quite an honor. I do not I do not have no region accent. The reason is I'm second
generation. And second generation people seldom get recognized to represent all those who
preceded them. I am here for that reason. First of all, in my field, I felt that everyone
needs to have a little bit of action with their body so that their attention span is
sustained. So, I suggest that you stand up, give yourself a little wiggle, give your body a
little shake, and be prepared for two additional speakers. >> [applause and cheering] >>
What are the Norwegian characteristics? I've been told that they are stoic. That means they
do not desire sympathy. They are reserved. They are modest. They are polite. I was
admonished to never, ever, ever toot your own horn. So, today I would like you to lift your
glass and give a hip, hip, hooray for the Norwegians because this is our moment. What did
the Norwegians contribute to Cleveland? All of you must know that there is a very strong
marine maritime heritage. It's pretty obvious that all of you had ancestors or yourselves
who had to cross the water. the pond either by air or by ship. Well, Norwegians broke the
ice with that aspect of exploration because we now know conclusively that Leif Ericson in
the year 1000 to 1003 established the first settlement in Newfoundland calling it Vinland.
You probably have already heard about Roald Amundsen Fridtjof Nansen and maybe even Thor
Heyerdahl who proved that uh probably the Kon-Tiki proved that it was possible to trans
trans uh to establish a settlement in the new world. How does this convey to Cleveland? I
want you to know that the majority of Norwegians were here before we were born. Um 19 1890s
18 and turn of the century was a period of time when most of the Norwegians came. That's
where my family came from. Many of them had a common name. You might know it from the movie
Frozen where the snowman was named Olaf. Well, my father's name was Olaf. My grandfather's
name was Olaf, and my great-grandfather's name was Olaf, and I went to St. Olaf College. >>
[clears throat] >> Um Those Norwegian men that came worked primarily as the workforce on the
Great Lakes. Great Lakes shipping was at its birth. The steel industry, the manufacturing of
steel, uh iron ore transport, freighters. One of them later was one that I viewed often from
my window. How could that be? The William G. Mather was docked at the end of my street. In
another direction, the Terminal Tower was from the balcony of my apartment. This is crazy. I
am Cleveland born. I am Cleveland educated at a time when the Cleveland schools were the
model of the whole nation. >> [clears throat] >> I grew up attending Kentucky Elementary
School, William H. Brett Junior High School, and West Tech High School. Those teachers and
those methods of teaching us were profound. They were wonderful teachers, and I'm very
proud. But why would the Mather be at the bottom of my street? My story is personal. I am a
war baby. I did not know my father. My father flew the airplane the fighter pilot five
fighter jet cop airplane that's on display at the Western Reserve Historical Society. It was
a P-51 Mustang. Every time I go there, I feel like I'm reaching out to him. So, my mother
was a widow. Later, my mother was a widow twice. It thrust us into a condition that is not
conventional. We grew up at Lake View Terrace Apartments. And as you came to this location
tonight, they were on your left side with a thousand different apartments. We grew up on
welfare. But in the school, middle school, I was so aware of everything happening resulting
from World War II. Four grandparents, beautiful accents, were like music to my ears. They
were wonderful, and they were very kind and generous to us, and it's the reason we were able
to avoid arrest. >> [clears throat] >> Coming from the projects, that's an achievement. Um
My classmates included some girls. Two of them I'd like to tell you about. One of them was
Inara Johannes. She was laughing. We sat across from each other at the lunch table. And she
was eating an apple. But I told her, "Inara, you're not supposed to eat the core of the
apple. You're not supposed to eat the seeds of the apple." "Oh, Cathy, you don't understand
when you've been in a concentration camp how grateful you are for every morsel of food." I
became sensitive to what was happening to others that were of my own age. Diana Townji
invited me to her house. I didn't know that people ate rice every day, but her family did.
She was Her family had been relocated from California to Oklahoma after World War or during
World War II. These people, who were my classmates, all of us are accidentally born in the
place where we are born. But all of us are part of humanity. I think there is no way that I
can say thank you more for this wonderful opportunity to recognize the very slim number of
Norwegians that exist in Cleveland, but to give them a tribute to those who were before us
and those that will come after us. And thank you so much for honoring me. >> [applause] >>
Norwegians are polite. They have three methods of saying thank you. The first one is the
word takk. T a k k. The second one is mange takk. Many thanks. And the third one is mange
tusen takk. So, mange tusen takk. Many thousand thanks. >> [applause]
