Cleveland Hall of Fame for including me with a lot of wonderful people over the years. Um,
as Jack Fenny said one time when he was being honored, you know, I don't really deserve this
honor, but then again, I've got arthritis and I don't deserve that either. I was
particularly touched that Sanji was my presenter. He um his own advice is hyperbole which
you but he is one of my favorite alltime lawyers that I've worked with. He's a he's a
magnificent lawyer. He uh uh right now he's commuting between here and Salo to help us open
an office in Brazil. He uh does it without any complaint. And uh I know that one example of
how truly outstanding he is. It was back in 2002 and there's a European magazine called
merger markets and they ranked the top five lawyers on European deals in that year. Here's
Sanjie Kapoor in the top five lawyers and on European deals out of Cleveland, Ohio. So,
thank you very much, Eli. That was just above and beyond. I deeply appreciate it. I'm glad
you mentioned my long-suffering wife, Pat. She has supported me and all my endeavors, no
matter how weird they may have been over the years, for our 61 years of married life. Thank
you. I'd also like to thank David Flesher for his remarks earlier tonight. That was really a
total surprise to me. David has done a fabulous job at Case Western Reserve as the associate
provost in charge of international affairs. when he came there which I think was about six
or seven years ago the percentage of undergraduates case uh who were foreign students was
about 2 and 12% and now it's 13% and much of that is attributable to David's work when they
heard about this someone asked me well what is it that justifies you to be part of the
international hall of fame And I had to think a little bit about that. I came up with six
experiences that may relate to this wonderful honor. Number one, when I was 2 years old, I
spent a year in Paris. And my father was a young associate at a New York Boston law firm and
they wanted to open an office in Paris and they wanted the youngest associate in the firm to
go along with a partner and so he went of course I went with it and I'm told that after that
year on the boat coming back to the US my language was such a hodgepodge of French and
English nobody could understand me except my parents. So that was sort of my first
experience with the international field. Number two, when I graduated from college in 1950,
I took a sleeping bag and three of my classmates and we spent a year hitchhiking around
Europe. We could do it in those days. And uh it was a amazing experience in a way because
each of us spent for the whole summer about $1,000 each. You can do it in those days. Well,
while I was there, I fell in love with this beautiful Italian girl. I met her on a train
from Madrid to Venice. She spoke not a word of English. I spoke about a word of d but
somehow we were able to communicate and it was a wonderful experience. Number three, in the
1970s, I through some peculiar circumstances, I became the US lawyer for Redum Limited,
which in those days was the world's largest producer of roof tiles, which are used
throughout Europe and uh I was their US lawyer and ultimately I became a member of the
parent board in Vgate and for about 12 years I made a trip could write a through London
every other month. And so during that time, I came to learn and love London. It was a
wonderful city. I still think it's just about the finest city in the world, next to
Cleveland, of course. Number four, in 1972, I was working at the board of directors of a
local company here called Rok Incorporated out in Aurora. They make large earrings from 24
in to 30 ft in diameter. And they were eventually acquired by a very large German steel
company. And so these Germans love to travel. And so our port with the Germans dominating
the port traveled to exotic places like Botenb the island of Madiraa in the middle of the
Atlantic Ocean and New York, New Jersey. Number five. In 1991, I was chairman of the Greater
Cleveland Growth Association. And as someone that's mentioned this evening, uh we got the
idea that in those days that we should quote internationalize Cleveland, Cleveland had been
referred to by a lot of the media as another Ruskel city. And uh we didn't think that was
fair or appropriate. And so we set out to change that image. And it was really amazing that
Mayor Mike White had virtually the same idea at the exact same time we did. So we pulled our
resources, excuse me. And we formed the organization called the International Trade
Alliance. And it had three objectives. One, expand exports from Cleveland abroad. two, try
to attract more reverse investment of foreign firms into the Cleveland area. And three,
internationalize cause our people here to think of themselves as living and being in an
international city. We had this sort of defeist mentality that we were just a Midwestern
city with bus and we didn't think that was a fair characterization. So those were our three
objectives and I think the trade alliance did some very good things for about a decade.
Eventually financial pressures and other things caused it to to basically morph into what is
now global payment but I was very glad to have that experience. And some of the arguments
that we used were that the uh we were an oceangoing port by reason of the same seaway. We
had at that time it's probably about the same over 117 nationality groups that were active
and busy here. You've heard about some of them tonight. And in addition in those days,
Continental Airlines had non-stop service to London. So all of those factors we promote to
try to international high school and number six and most important and some was referred to
this when I became a man's day in 1984 the legal profession was expanding and growing
rapidly and we could see that if we had continued to have a leading position in the
profession would have to become part of the international legal practice. We spent a lot of
time trying to figure out how to do that. It wasn't easy, but uh we we uh I spent a good
part of my time for six or seven years roaming around Europe and Asia trying to find good
opportunities. And during that period, we were able to open offices in Paris and Brussels,
Riad, Geneva, Hong Kong, Tokyo. So it was a it was an exciting time and a lot of wonderful
experiences and uh it was it was somewhat scary because you know this was a big investment
could have come crashing down and as long as you said our partners weren't exactly ecstatic
about getting but ultimately it paid off. So those are my claims to international
relationship. But uh I really am just totally overwhelmed by this honor. And I I highly
salute and congratulate the Cleveland International Hall of Fame for continuing to promote
Cleveland as a truly international city. All of here deserve that recognition. Thank you
very much.
