Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/bishop-anthony-pilla-2015/bishop-anthony-pilla-2015_PpXIVZKq49U.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T17:17:31.110Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

Appropriately so, Sam Miller is going to induct Bishop Anthony Pilla. It's like Sam needs no
introduction and he's right behind me so I'm not going to give a long one. But let me just
say, he's a 2013 inductee into the Cleveland Hall of Fame. He's actively engaged in the
Cleveland community in all aspects of it. They don't have to attack anymore as he's right
here. Sam Miller. I'm a woman and I know I'm sorry. I don't care about women and I don't
care about women. I introduced him I had and if you can't hear me, my name is William and
I'm the Cleveland Curtain. I introduced my other representatives. Let me tell you about
them. In my backyard, a one-day conversation, mission, and editing field that I've been in
too. It's very important to everyone. Whatever lines he has touched and that remember, I
often do that. And eventually, I don't even know how he would present a mission. I call him
Bishop. I'm a great, I'm a great role company. And the last thing that all people in the
room is your elements. You can't part my heart, I'm really hoping for them without pushing
them. So if you're a guy, I say to your elements, your beliefs, and your excellence. I'm a
guy that everybody's been a country. He has everything going on. That is what he is. And
he's quite competitive. I'm listening for great news to set your point. That when he's not
picked up and I say to him, "I'm not going to do that." I'm not going to talk to him about
the relation. And he's not going to be locked up by him. And he said, "Yeah." I said, "What
do you say to them?" He said, "Step back and tell them what they're playing with." He has a
lot of all his friends and friends. They're beautiful. Although from some of them, that's
not really a good problem. When he first came, I thought I was going to point him. I'm going
to get to see him in a couple of minutes. He said, "Come on down this afternoon." I gave him
a phone call and he was having a double phone call. I said, "I need the room." He said, "No,
stay there. That's why I'm out." He said, "I'm a little boy." And that started the party
again. And then during friendship. And I'm doing a family and teacher army. And I'm going to
have a night with my friends. And who he loves the most. And in whose parents he likes
himself the best. That's not the same. He actually lives in his office. He's very small.
He's got a family and he lives in a family. He sat down and looked very inspired about the
room. He said, "I have a vision that if you were children, which I am, if you have a priest,
walk down the street in front of the river, move on to the cross of the street." He thought
that God would publish you. I had to bring him on the street side of the street. Every time
I had a prison, it was probably a prison. And every time I had a problem with the circus,
the problem with the circus I'd come up with always, is because of that. And the words come
out flashing. They're the things. And they are, the more things change, the more things
they're concerned. And just before I came in and I had a meeting, there's a black dude. That
treatment shouldn't become number three or number four on the right. You see, I had a
pleasure. I had a terrible crisis at the dance academy. I felt this opening. It was all the
compassion and the same. He changed me. I had a point of illusion. But he didn't. He was a
black human being. And that vision was the next thing on the dance floor. And that was the
human's new coach. And I had been heartened, and tested with all the costs of treatment. And
I thought, oh, it's almost complete and everything. But he got a blessing. He was right back
then. I felt this man was a dead man. He was really, really confused. It was Martin P He was
right here. She always wanted to make sure that that was me. But I had no one. I had that
little original name. And the back was not me. And she was devastated. She absolutely
struggled. I was not the way you said it. And I said, I don't know what happened. But it
never happened again. So when I was a young student, I was going to the gym. The rabbi once
said, "I'm the last few students to attend." Why would you know that night has fallen and
day has begun. And everybody came up and answered, "The moonlight is very shining." And the
answer was, "D You can see that it fell on you and me." That's what it came to do. Now I
can't even write it. There were eyes on the Pope John XXIII. That was Mother Taddington. I
didn't know he was out of my mind because he was the one that came through the concert. What
does this business say? "Jill is trapped with that subject, but all of it is useless." It's
all at the same time. The main role is the early presentation of the Lord. So when Lord
looked out for me and the bird brought back a tiny branch, He recognized that He may have
saved the dead side of God. He promised that He would behave, although He got a little tipsy
on the way round, but that He would behave and that the earth should never be flooded with
Him. The tragic dream, yes, for sure, of myself, got to the moment where I delegated myself
and several of the party members to the very same United States. So to read yesterday and
read and play great, the Catholic Scumptious. That we did. Everything that we bought and
won, that He wanted. He was going to do it today, but the night there, I said, "God, He said
God, He was going." And it was a fun trip. And we went to the party, and I unfortunately,
went out of his life to keep getting into the situation alive, and his party was. So I'll
tell you one episode. That time, the governor, I think was one of these. We were in the
desert, terrified, and we got to the... We all went to the desert to the bishop and said,
"God, He was going to tell the governor of the desert." And he said, "What is that?" He
said, "What is it?" I said, "It's a car." "Oh, I've never seen it." Now, even that time, the
bishop and I ended up there walking into the classroom. And now, the nun says, "There's a
very strong way. I want to see what education has done for our team." So he said, "I know I
know. I want to go to the U.S. to go." She said, "You want to be a... Let's go to the more
than a year." "Let's go to the house." "Why not do one of them?" And she said, "No." She
said, "I don't want to be a bishop." And we kept saying that. We didn't know anything. We
wanted to act in a new house. And we were able to change the schedule of the way through.
And I'd like to give some advice. The bishop is... And someday, and I'm about the next time,
the baby's coming. And you know what he's doing? They're the child's fault that they've
come. And I've been telling him, "Well, she's a... She's been out of her procedures on her
daughter. She will get you." I believe... I believe that God is free. Thank you.
