Thank you Sam. We have been pretty friends for over 45 years so you'll have to excuse to
have heard of it. Sam and I are really our friends because we're both in love with the same
woman, my mother. We call her every day. And the things that Sam said were true and I had to
give that judgment to you. It's because I am the son of George and Lee Pricklow, two Italian
immigrants. I'm very proud of my ethnic tradition and I'm happy it's represented here. You
know Cleveland is the best argument against the melting pot here. Nothing ever melted.
Nothing ever melted. And what a blessing. What a blessing it has been that nothing melted.
Diversity usually is put into context of a challenge or a problem that has not been my
experience. Diversity is a gift. An example of the beauty of my point of view of the
infinite beauty of God's how it reflected the lives and humanity in all of the persons. You
know friends, contemporary society has its own standards for judging a person's success. But
I just want to say this evening nothing of what the world calls success from my perspective,
nothing can begin to compare with the grace filled experiences I've had administering to the
people of this community, all the people of this community and especially the Catholic
community. I should be thanking you and the people of this community. What a privilege and
an honor it was to be in your midst. This city has wonderful people, wonderful people,
generous people, compassionate people and we need to raise that up. That's why I think
evenings like tonight are so important. What an honor it is to be part of this day with the
good people that are here. The greatest reward I had was working with the people and I had
the great privilege and honor of working with people at the diocesan staff, tremendously
talented people. All the things that people say I did, anybody who has been in an executive
position know we did the name. But it's the people that will work with us to do the work and
I had the blessing of being associated with some wonderful, wonderful people who were so
talented. I'm a history teacher and I always remember Van Newkran If you want to be
successful, hire people who are smarter than you are and let them do their job. Let them do
their job. And you did a wonderful job. It was such a privilege, such a privilege to be able
to do there. I can't tell you the satisfaction that comes from the ministry to you good
people. Retirement is wonderful. There's a lot about being a bishop, but I'm happy it's in
the next. But the thing that I miss most is the people, the great people of this community
and we need to work together to keep this community what it has been and can't be. And it's
people who are going to do it. People who respect each other, love one another and know one
another. If we do that, there's not much we can't do. That kind of satisfaction working in
that has been far better than any prominent, efficient position or any cause of the people.
So I thank you for the privilege of being part of this community in my ministry. God bless
you all.
