Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/richard-a-ganim-2015/richard-a-ganim-2015_kofOH1CYKBQ.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T17:17:31.129Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

I am my child, my proud daughter of Richard Ganim. It is Trina's honor to accept this
recognition on my father's new life. And I am sorry that due to his ill health, he is not
present tonight. We would like to thank Debbie and Dan Hansen for all the work they did this
evening. We would like to thank Mr. Pierre Jane for his kind words, his friendship, not just
tonight, but for many, many years. Thank you to my father's Lebanese friends, American
friends, church friends, city officials friends for being here tonight. And father and his
proud to be Lebanese, but more so he is proud to be an American. He loves this country, he
has served this country, he believes in three principles. You serve your God, you serve your
family, you serve your country. He has done all three probably. As Mr. Janey said, he grew
up here in America with immigrant parents. He has been a lifelong member of St. Aaron, Aaron
High Catholic Church. And he loves his church, he has loved it since the day he was born. He
continues to love it and when he is able to, he attends the church regularly there. He has
done a lesson to all of us, diversity, love everyone, love those who are different from you,
learn what they are about, learn different faiths, learn different cultures. Because he
really believed that if we learned and we educated ourselves, then that is what we would do,
we would get along, we would be at peace with one another. And that's what he tried to do in
his life. I know as a child growing up, my father loved this country as I said. And he
served it well, both in the World War II and then coming home and serving the city of Seven
Hills. He loved politics. He thrived on it. And along with minor George, he started cameo,
an organization that to this day still thrives. So I would like to congratulate those who
are also getting inducted along with my father. He is humbled to be included in such a
district, the distinguished class, and I once again regret that he is unable to attend
tonight.
