Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/richard-a-ganim-2015/richard-a-ganim-2015_M384Uvg0bh8.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T17:17:31.127Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

I'm honored to introduce our next inductee into the International Hall of Fame, Mayor
Richard Ganim. All who said that it couldn't be with us tonight. If there is nothing in the
world, could it start him from being here tonight other than his illness? It is a privilege
to induct a person that I expect and I consider him a friend and a mentor. I'm pleased to
share his outstanding accomplishments and achievements. Richard Ganim was born in Cleveland
to Joseph Anazah, who was created from Tehran to the U.S. in the early 1900s, the ninth
child of 12 children. Ethnic pride is important to the Ganim family. As an example, his
parents mandated their children to assist in chores and maintenance at their church, St.
Mary's, Mar a Main Catholic Church, which is an area here. Without our Monsignor with us,
the pastor of our St. Mary Monsignor, Peter Perron, thank you for being here. Also, our
church is hosting this year the National Convention of the L was instrumental in purchasing
and developing and expanding the parish, which is now one of the largest parishes in the
U.S. He remains devoted to this tradition today with his continued involvement and worship
at St. Mary's and the other expanding parishes, which are now located downtown and in the
dependency area. He just purchased another 26 acres a few years back in the dependency area.
When I think of Richard Ganim, I think of his family. He has a wife, Barry, who has been
married for 64 years, has five children, 16 grandchildren and eight great grandchildren. As
a successful business person and family man, it was a tremendous honor to the Lebanese and
Middle Eastern communities. One Richard was the first elected official in the state of Ohio
of Lebanese Lisan. In the city of Seven Hills, he was twice elected councilman, twice
elected finance director and served two terms as the mayor of Seven Hills. And also with us
tonight, our mayor of Seven Hills, Maya Dehapila, thank you for being here tonight. Richard,
as he tried, motivated him to be one of the original founders, president for many years of
Gambia, the female American community when needed. He has given inspiration to many, as he
was for myself. The former superstar and behind the mold with Kenya. Kenya grew to be the
most respected and so lefted organization in Cleveland, with a holy county and state of
Ohio. And it represents the views and concern of the more than 250,000 people of Middle
Eastern descent in this area. Actually, Kenya was here celebrating our 20th anniversary. The
Saturday, May 2nd, and all of you are invited to attend. Richard became the flagship of this
community. He has been an inspiration to them. He's been involved with many other charitable
foundations, including the Ryan Moha Foundation, named after his grandson, who lost his life
too early. The foundation for poor youth activities through positive engagement. Richard has
shared many memorable reflections with myself and my family of what it means to be a Vanina.
He has never been to Alabama, though he will never guess it. When you speak with him, you
will feel his warmth toward his parents' homeland and the price of his heritage. His stories
are moving and his goal is our children will hold on their traditions, faith and pride as he
knows. His happy pride does not match his pride of being an American. His contribution to
this country is unmatched as he serves in the armed forces, as an army airborne as they are
until the end of the World War II. Richard is always the first to proudly explain his
heritage and the essence of being American to Americans. His mission is to see all of us
succeed and work together, cohesively, and be proud of each other. I want to take a special
thanks to the greatly true and our community, thef evenpeople.com, who are very lucky to
have your equipment, always supporting the ethnic communities, excluding and sharing the
greatness of our different cultures and neighborhoods. Thank you, ma'am, the grandmothers.
