Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/le-nguyen-2026/le-nguyen-2026_T5peEDc8mE8.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T14:18:00.710Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

Mr. Mutchin, congratulations to you. We have one more productive this evening, Mr. Lee W.
And Mr. Wayn has two people tonight. Dr. M staff mayor Frank Jackson send a message tonight
and former [clears throat] city councilman Matt Zone ok everyone this is the final stretch
good evening so I am here tonight on behalf of former mayor Frank Jackson is inducting le
and I just want to start by saying it is truly an honor to stand before you tonight as a
member of the Cleveland International Hall of Fame on behalf of Mayor Jackson I am a 2020
inductive we remember that year and Mayor Frank Jackson is a proud member of the class of
2025 tonight we gather to recognize not just achievement but life defined by service,
resilient and an unwavering commitment to community. Before I go further, I do want to give
a shout out for Lucy Torz um for her devotion. It's fitting that they're both being induced
together. Lee exemplifies what it means to be a true public servant. I have often said that
public service is not for everyone and it isn't. It requires sacrifice, humility and a deep
sense of responsibility. But when it is done right, it becomes one of the most powerful ways
to change lives and strengthen communities. Lee embodies that. He understands that. His
journey began far from Cleveland and Vietnam where he experienced the realities of war and
displacement. Yet from those challenges he felt the life rooted in service and purpose. For
more than three decades with the city of Cleveland, Lee became a trusted present, a
connector, a mediator, and a bridge between cultures, neighborhoods, and institutions. He
helped families reveal their lives. supported communities in times of need and brought
people together in ways that leave a lasting impact. His work extends beyond any single role
or title. Rather helping um resettle refugee families, strengthening culture understanding,
or serving as a steady voice and figure within city hall. his influence could be felt across
generations and importantly his service spend administration including his time during the
Frank Jackson administration alongside other mayors reflects not only his professionalism
but his unwavering commitment to the people of this city the city of Cleveland. So for that
we [clears throat] are all better and Cleveland is stronger because of your service. Thank
you, Lee. This is what service looks like and this is what legacy feels like. We thank you.
[clears throat] And and that was from Mayor Frank Jackson. On a personal note, Lee was one
of the first people that I met when I entered CL City Hall in 1999. I know I was three. And
I will tell you that what he has done and how he has served and how he sacrificed his time,
his energy and his talent to make the city the way it is today and the strength of the
international community what it is today. Lee, I appreciate you. Now, he's been inspired by
two people today. So, it's my privilege and honor to introduce Matt Zone. You all know him.
President uh Griffin uh spoke of him today. But Matt wants to personally come up and say
some words about Lee as well. Thank you, Valerie. And I will be super brief. I realize this
has been a long program. Um, I had the high honor and privilege of serving as a counselman
for 19 years, but I met Lead well before I was elected to office. I was a young boy. Uh I
was 10 years old and my mother Mary Zone was a council woman. And in 1975 after the fall of
many Vietnamese immigrants were coming to the United States. Many of them started to settle
on the near west side where my mother represented. And Lee was always somebody who my mother
could call on particularly as people were trying to assimilate. When um I became the
councelman, Lee was singularly focused on creating the Vietnamese community center of
creator Cleveland and he did that right there in the Gordon Square Arcade at West 65th in
Detroit. And flash for 22 years later I was the councilman. So I got to work closely with
him. He is a humble hardwing person. Um really thrilled that his son Jason came in from out
of town to be here with him because uh Lee raised a remarkable young man who's doing great
things as well. All of you join and give a warm welcome to our friend and Hall of Fame and
duct D Lee W. Hold on. He had to put his classes on. He's an old man. Good evening, ladies
and gentlemen and all my My name is L I am very very happy to be here to receive and a world
of Cleveland International H off and I would like to thank you to Mr. Dan and Mr. There is
more information for this evening. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you very
much to May your policy Mayor Michael R. May James Campally May Fran Jackon and outstanding
leader and customment and my former director are Mr. Mr. Williams Mr. CU he got the law he
is outstanding leader and Mr. L Griffen director of community relations board I know after I
step down and he moved on to that high level become Cy Resident City of Land and I know next
few more years he will be a city of living in the future R and Mr. Mr. Wa R, Director of
Foundation Margaret W and outstanding Mr. and Mr. Johnny H Mr. Mar National C Bank and Mr.
Mit rewardt mrel the US Vietnam veteran please stand up so the people can recogn He had
[singing] me a lot during I worked for the city of Land in Vietnamese community. B an ch my
I one thank Vietnam veteran and I know may fon Vietnam veteran both of them went to Vietnam
and for Vietnam World and I just want to sing a short song to thank you them and All the
Vietnam veteran went to Vietnam for the freedom of Vietnam. the [singing] in Vietnam the up
Rainb at this time I would like to thank you my family many of them come here to support me
for my he reporter at many years ago and now he today from the Houston Texas here to support
me Please give the big hand. [Applause] Thank you. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I was
born in River City in Vietnam. The end of Vietnam World on April 30, 1975 I took a the first
group came to the USA. In 1980 I graduated associate degree at Indiana vocation tax I for
the community relations city of I work hour to exit new resident from Vietnamese laun and
Cambodian reset in our city I also investigate comp and diversity awareness workshop on
culture of in our city. On May 30, 2012, I stepped down and took retirement after I worked
for the city of Cleveland for 30 years and it was a long long time my friend. also because
my lovely bon had cancer I need at home to take care of her but later on away on August 162
I wish her here with me tonight. In the year of 2000 while I worked for community relations
I never forgot a big project we called Asian American resource directory. It is the idea for
my manager Mr. Jack Wner. I think that's a very good project. So we submit to Michael R it.
Thank you. I a meeting with the Asian Pacific American Federation. Mr. David and Mr. Frank
Nam Chinese consolidate B association Mr. President and Mr. Mar from National City Bank. All
of them and support that time we have only telephone and computer but we don't have internet
or Google like today. book Asian American Resort Directory this book and I think we s a lot
tounityad library to so in that book we have city ofland service organization from Chinese
to Capodian and church and temple of Asian community agency and association business
community service healthc legal media professional religious institution and restaurant we
finish it in summer Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the important days in
the Vietnam history is April 30, 1975. the end of Vietnam years ago the by theing to the
border of Cambodia to and a new in the United Stat of America myself I would like to take
this opportunity to thank you USA and South Vietnam Sia who fought for freedom at well at
the city of agency chur and individuals for the outstanding of and providing assistant for
the Vietnam refugee recettlement in Cleveland, Ohio, USA. We have you to remember America
5000 airline her 500,000 sa Vietnam hero 1 million hero Vietnam people ultimate sacrifice
for our freedom today. God and Buddha bless your family. Thank you very much. Thank you very
much. [Applause][Cheers] Mr. Win, congratulations. I had the pleasure of working with your
son, Jason. He's right there back at Channel 3 back of the day, Jason. It's good to see you.
Obviously, your dad loves you very much. And as my grandfather would say, Mr. Win, you're
done well. He's a great kid. Can we please get a round of applause for all of our inductors?
[yelling] Also want to say one of the proceedings is in addition to the ones I told you
earlier the will also get one from Senator John. Once again has been my pleasure to be your
MC tonight as we do every year. Mr. Dan Hanson is going to give some final remarks and give
his famous toast. D stay up here R big hand for R doesn't he channel I don't know the
basketall games where you are I don't know where any of the games are anymore you know it's
but this is what we do the important thing is all the inducements immediately when we
adjourn now come to the front for your class photo. class photo is very important. It's in
the book every year. It's going to be in the West Reserve Historical Society. It's
everywhere. So come up right away. You can pose later. So the last thing we do and you can
start nominating for next year, we raise our glasses and we toast a new class. So we raise
your glass, we toast Andy and the other Andy and Katherine and Lee and Lucy say whatever
your language will do it. I'm going to say SL for my Irish friends. But here's a toast to
them. Cheers. Thank you all for coming. Class, come up for your picture and then take
pictures and thanks for coming. We'll see you next year.
