Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/berj-shakarian-2020/berj-shakarian-2020_2KBxzdgiqJM.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T17:17:31.194Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

The ethnic tapestry of the city we all love and call home. I love that. Next we have Berj
Shakarian inducted by Paul Berg. Paul is a 2019 inductee. He is delegate for the Czech
Cultural Garden and past president of the Cleveland Cultural Gardens Federation. He is
currently also serving as president of Soho Cleveland and the historic Bohemian National
Hall. It's my real pleasure and privilege to introduce to you my friend and colleague, Berj
Shakarian. You can all read his cycle as an appropriate. We're getting 90 seconds and we're
way too long to try to list them. Berj Shakarian cherishes his Armenian heritage, although
he was born and grew up in Bucharest, Romania. As with many refugee families, the path to
safety and success is long and winding. Purchasing architects. When asked about his design,
you're likely to hear about the history and the philosophy that influenced the design. It's
never just the design of Spain. Among the many projects for the city, county and university,
he also designed the Armenian Cultural Garden and is currently helping the Turkish community
design their garden. Now, for those of you aware of the recent history and attention in that
region, it is absolutely admirable that Mr. Shakarian would rise above it all for the sake
of friendship and mutual understanding of the model of these spectacular cultural gardens
and share his down below it all. That is Berj. Berj Shakarian arrived in America on July 4th
and there were firewalls. He and his wife Carol, an American of Hungarian heritage, wed in
1971. They brought up four children, all of whom now love PhDs. And of course, they are very
proud of him. Berj, it is my pleasure to present to you the Cleveland International Hall of
Fame. Thank you Paul Burek. Cheers to Dr. Wai Kuri. And my sister gratitude to the entire
Hall of Fame committee for selecting me to join such a prestigious company. I am both
honored and humbled for this award. Also, I want to extend my appreciation for the support
of Susieh Adesian, President of Darwinian Cultural Garden, Adita Kuzarian and Ted Arslanian.
Thank you. Cleveland has been a journey of discovery for me for almost 60 years. This town
has become a place that I go home and have created a family life with a lovely, local
Hungarian girl. We met on the old CES WAPA transit while commuting to college. And are now
married for 50 years and as Paul said, we have four very successful children, each with
PhDs. Thank you, Carol. As a young man wandering the streets of downtown Cleveland, I came
to love the city passion. Little did I know that one day I will be responsible for restoring
and repairing the imposing Soldiers and Sailors monument. Or that I will have a hand in
saving the state and Ohio theaters. I recall walking in the State Theater with a roof
collapsing and seeing East of Java movie poster with Robert Mitchell. Today, well, it's
certainly a success story. Once again, many thanks for this special honor. Thank you.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
