Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/jim-craciun-2017/jim-craciun-2017_XZh7vcFsUns.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T17:17:31.163Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

Okay, with Councilman Matt Zall to make your way up. You know Matt Zall, who was first
elected to City Council in 2001, representing World of 15, who was the group before the
short way. That's where he and his generation of the standard grow up. He's a strong
advocate for the arts, green building, alternative energy. Look what he's done with Gordon
Square. He's chair of the Council Safety Committee. Last November, Matt got a national
honor. He was elected president of the National League of Cities. And of course, he's making
your balance now, he's responsible for the annual Italian Heritage Month celebration for
City Hall. And Councilman Zall is going to induct Jim Craciun. On behalf of the City of
Cleveland, I can't think of two better ambassadors for what makes Cleveland wonderful, the
beautiful mosaic of people who call it home, then Bill and then Dan and Debbie Hanson. You
two do a terrific job. Father Guarval, thank you for the beautiful invocation. So I have to
reciprocate Chevronifac. It means how are you, and the response would be good. La Bulsana.
Many years. So Father Guarval, thank you for the beautiful blessing. I do want to honor and
recognize the former colleague of mine who I've worked so much on in the international
community, my former colleague, who's the president, CEO of Cleveland Josephine. And so it's
my distinct honor and privilege to recognize somebody who has been a mentor for me since I
was probably a common Roman Catholic. So following into the footsteps of his father to care
for those in our community who are grieving, I can't think of anyone better and kinder and
gentler than somebody like Jimmy Craciun. It's such an admirable thing to do the following
footsteps of your parents. And Jim Craciun is a dedicated father of five. His kids are here
in the well, Jason, Jonathan, Jesse, and Nicholas. And he was a loving and caring husband to
the late mercy. You know, Jim has always been a very deeply faithful person. He's been a
lifelong parishioner relating on carnival. He's so involved in every aspect of what that
church does. And his presence is always known. And in 1974, Jim's odyssey really began to
unfold in his deeper appreciation and love for his capital place, faith. You know, risking
his own life. Many people don't notice about Jim, but it's in the book. Jim smuggled
violence and catechisms into Communist Romania. In 1974, he was a young kid. This is where
he began his lifelong commitment to human rights. And at the International Human Rights
Conference in London in April of 1977, Jim helped draft and signed a memorandum condemning
the impact of the Helsinki Accords and its lives on the Soviet Bloc countries. You know,
this same memorandum was prepared and signed simultaneously by Romanian and Czechoslovakians
by courageous dissidents who were later imprisoned for this act. He risked his life because
he believed in the cause. All of us could only follow our cause and say that I would put my
own life before this issue just to raise awareness. So shortly thereafter, I began working
at Croatia's uniform. And it was a great job. I was a doorman. I learned how to say hello in
about 15 different languages. And not only a doorman, I started carving parts. Jim came up
to me and he goes, "You're only 15. You don't have a job this life." He's a regular people's
guy. Like, "You don't have a job this life." But, you know, Jim has always been like a big
brother to me. And he realized early on, with the recent passing of my father when I started
working there, that there wasn't a better way that could impact my life than with giving me
a job. And it wasn't just a job. Jim took an active interest in my education and my
well-being. Jim got me involved in the Cleveland JC's. He got me involved very active in the
Holy Name Society of Our Lady Moncarmo. In fact, I encourage you to run for office of that
wonderful organization. And Jim saw something in myself that I wasn't even aware of. He's
been telling me this for over 40 years. He always said one day that I would one day rise to
serve others. And I wasn't quite sure at the time you know you're 15 years old what that
phrase meant. But he had a last-minute, still has a last-minute impact on my life. So what I
would first consider when running for city council, one of my first meetings, of course,
other than Basil Russo, was with Sue Krasner. In fact, Jim served as my campaign chairman
and he opened up many doors for me. He still serves as my campaign chairman today. I know,
Jill, I have so much respect for you. And in the two minutes allotted to me tonight, it's
not adequate enough time for me to share with this wonderful group tonight how much I love
and respect you. It's my honor and privilege to present for inductee into the Cleveland
International Hall of Fame, James Krasner. So I feel like I'm giving an Academy Award. I
want to thank the Academy. I actually have the former inductees for voting, all of us
unanimously. To our guests, thank you for being here. I have been blessed with tremendous
mentors, just as Matt Hilton said that I've been a mentor of his. I have been blessed with
tremendous mentors. And I'd like to share with you a few of them. In fact, when you think
about who my mentors were, according to Tom Brokaw, they were the greatest generation. My
parents and all the people that were my mentors. I would begin with my parents. We know that
our parents are our first teachers in the home. My dad had two Purple Hearts in World War
II. My mother loved to embrace two kids. She needs a Purple Heart too. The other person who
played a big part of my life was my parish priest. Being a young boy at Lady Mark Arnold
Church, Father Reno from Scotty, who was the Renaissance priest, the visionary of our
neighborhood, who began the Detroit Shore Way. And we're so lucky to have someone like Matt
Zone continuing that effort to take Detroit Shore's look down on the whole country as a
model for how a city should be in the neighborhoods. That priest that was my mentor was the
young seminary in the Navy before World War II. And he fought the ugly face of Fai Shih-Sih
by Benito Mussolini. When the war was over, the Communists thought that they would take over
Italy. And he fought the ugly face of communism. And the communist infinity in Rome had a
tree where my priest would hang because of his fighting against them. Of course we know the
communist government never did take over, and we were blessed to give Father Reno. He's the
man who asked me to smuggle violence into communist Romania. And it should have been a long
my life with all the work I did for human rights. And I am privileged to have met such a
priest. Now I have to talk about another parish priest. Father Vasile Hanigan, the Romanian
Orthodox priest, I'm half Italian and half Romanian. Father Vasile Hanigan, he had a church
school when my brothers and I and my sisters were young. We had to go to Romanian school on
Saturday. We had to go to the dance in Romania, sing in Romanian, speak in Romanian, and
pray in Romanian. And we didn't want to go to the Saturday services. But I'll tell you what,
today we're so happy that we had Father Vasile Hanigan. He was also on the board of the
International Services Center, which I have served for many years. And he pushed me to be on
that board. So I bless his memory. We have a pillar. You know, it's one thing to have
something to say in your community. It's another thing to have somebody that will publish it
in the plain view. When the other man was our man, and we bless his memory. Also we had in
our community Peter Lukacs, who was the president of the, all these people I get deceased.
So if I miss somebody, nobody can yell at me. They probably have one. But anyways, Peter
Lukacs was the publisher of the Romanian newspaper, the Olds in America, called the America.
Cleveland is the oldest community, has the oldest community of Romanians in America. The
first Romanian Orthodox Church, St. Mary's Romanian Orthodox Church, the first Catholic
Church, St. Amminas, and 65th, both founded in the Detroit-Tillway neighborhood. So we found
out. Thank you. So Peter Lukacs ran a paper that went all over the world. And when we talked
about what was going on in Romania during the horrible times behind the Art Group, the
Romanian people living under communism. Mr. Lukacs gave me a platform. So I'm grateful to
this very day and bless his memory. Next I'd like to remember some of the people in
Cleveland that were my life. My godfather, godmother. I'd have to say George Dobri. Who made
it, you know, George Dobri, into the Romanian community. Beautiful man. Fought for our
culture. Another person, who some of you may not know, I remember Stella Zenoni. What a
princess in our Italian community. And we have wonderful Italians now carrying that towards
us, like Alberto Fidelity, our basil Russo, Matt Zone. Just a beautiful continuation of this
beautiful Italian culture, which I'm proud that my mother is out there. I also want to
remember some of those people that were on the board with me, I get deceased. Joe Holzer,
who is the German Dornish Robin, who is who has worked, built out the beautiful Linnaud Pard
on Columbia Road for the German people. Joe Holzer was on our board, worked so hard. Bless
his memory. There's somebody here that's living out there. I read more. I read more. Was on
the board. She pushed me to be chairman of the board. For the eight years I was the
chairman, I read more. It was towards me, every step of the way. I owe a lot to Irene
Morrell. Thank you, Irene Morrell. I'd like to recognize, I'd like to recognize my brother
Joe, who has been my partner, supported me through the years that I did, went to Paris, went
to London for human rights, and also was on the board for so many boards, actually. Joe was
always there covering me at the funeral. I want to honor my brother Jack, who spent 13 years
in China, and has worked with the Chinese people and continues his work with China. So I
respect my brother Jack, and now three people were important to me, and one of them is
Bishop Anthony Pillow. I was privileged to be on a first-name basis with Bishop Anthony
Pillow, and the honor of being the president of all the elite aid societies, and the
Catholic Diocese of Cleveland. I am so blessed to have been a friend to Bishop Anthony
Pillow. I mean, here, I'm lucky we're the one million Catholics in this Diocese to have such
a shepherd. Another person I'd like to thank is... (applause) Another person I'd like to
recognize is Alex Maciaski. I'm sorry he's not here, but he's been a tremendous mentor of
mine, and someone who made a young man feel like he was important. I'd like you to read
where we had that crazy Serbia that's published with Blake Dieran, who plays the... you
know, the... (inaudible) And it's just one of us. He cares about all of our nationalities.
And I see my great friend Abby Minna, Abdallah Minna, who is out there for you. (applause)
Abdallah Minna, my hero, who straightened out all my understanding, the standings of the
Middle East. Thank you, Abdallah. I love you. And the next person I'd like to recognize is
Sam Miller. For 30 years, for all the organizations I had wanted to belong to and supported
and needed help, Sam Miller, the humanitarian, the philanthropist at this time, he never
refused me. Never. And you know what takes money to make this world operate? I bless Sam,
and I hope God grants him some good help. Sam was a tremendous man over the last how many
years here in Cleveland. And now I'd like to tell you a little story about the International
Services Center. We've reached out to refugees, and we're still doing it, although I'm not
sure what the board is for. When the Kosovo War happened, we had some refugees from Albania.
There's a husband and a wife, two small children. They came to Cleveland, and we got the
husband with, in two days, his job in the factory making $7. We got the two children in
public school. We got them a house to live in, to pay rent. We set up to pay rent for two
months to help get on their feet. After about a month and a half in Cleveland, United
States, I went to our offices. We teach them English as a such a language. So I ran into
this obeying fellow, and I said, "How are you doing?" And his English wasn't too bad,
broken, of course. He said, "I am doing wonderful. I am now making $14 an hour." I said,
"Oh, my God, $14 an hour translates to $700 a week." I said, "This is unbelievable. How did
you do it?" He goes, "The place where I work, higher than my wife." John F. Kennedy said,
and this is important at a time which the Syrian people and some of the people are looking
to America to help, "John F. Kennedy, our great president said, 'The greatest asset that
America has is its immigrants, because they appreciate this country.'" Now, the folks that
like to say this, it has been written, "For those that much has been given, much will be
asked." So if you can be a philanthropist like Sam Miller, continue to be charitable,
because our charities and our organizations, to make this town a great town, they need your
help. If you're a young person and you're thinking about, you know, you don't have a lot of
money, but you've been given talents, we need your talents. We need your help. We need your
support. We need your time. Join some good charities and offer your time and talent. The
last thing I'd like to say, which I've based my whole life on, learning from my parents, is
that it isn't given that we receive. Thank you.
