Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/beverly-kerecman-2025/beverly-kerecman-2025_4jjbyRcwk3Y.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T14:18:00.662Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

Our next is president of the organization of Chinese American Cleveland. He's also the co of
the Cleveland Hello. I'd like to take this opportunity to congratulate all the was born in
Cleveland, Ohio. She is an educator and strong advocate for the Japanese American community.
Beverly is third generation Japanese American. Both of her parents' families were
incarcerated in German camps during World War II. With the loss of their California home and
businesses, they resettled in the area. While growing up in the Midwest after the war, many
Japanese American presented unique challenges. Consequently, Japanese Americans for social
clubs and organizations will serve as officer of the Cleveland Jac which is the local
chapter of the Japanese American Citizens League. It is the first and oldest Asian-American
civil rights organization in the United States. She has organized workshops, advocated civil
rights, coordinated youth programs and events for the Japanese American dancers. They
perform locally and all over Iowa. They performed at Year events, the African Superior
Festival, the Cleveland Nation Festival, and many, many different events throughout Ohio.
She even taught Japanese to Spider-Man and friends just last night. Last year played a key
role in restructuring the annual festival. It upholds the traditions of our families and
ancestors. She actively coordinated the 79th hospital uniting Japanese dancers JCL and the
Cleveland American Foundation sponsors. This year marks the 80th hospital in Cleveland.
It'll take place on July 20th. Beverly has also served as the president of CARA which is the
Cleveland Asian retired person's organization. She's a member of the JCL scholarship
committee. Even though she's retired, she continues her role as an educator through dance
work as a substitute teacher and remains actively involved in the community. is truly one of
Cleveland's most devoted leaders in our multiculture society. Always admire her for positive
attitude and gentle leadership. It is my honor and privilege to introduce the first person
of Japanese ancestry to receive the Cleveland International Hall of Fame award for a
lifetime achievement in the Japanese American community. Early heat. Thank you for the
lovely introduction, Lisa. Congratulations to the 2025 inductees. My heartfelt thanks to Dan
Hansen and the Cleveland International Hall of Fame. I share his recognition with my
colleagues. The color is dancing to table present and past dancers presiding the Cleveland
Japanese Foundation are Bill and Taki. music choice and Heat. Heat. My polish is here with
Michael here with Claire from your Jes. Cleveland is great because it welcomed the Japanese
and Japanese Americans out of the house when they were homeless. Our family have learned to
live and was followed by the Cleveland community and um on February 19th, 1942, President
Franklin D. Rose signing executive order 9066. I would hope we would learn from history. 120
men, women, and children of Japanese and Japanese descent were put in the camps in deserts
in the parts of the United States. Twoth3 of those were American citizens. There were no
incidents of criminal or things against our government. In fact, many of the men did serve
as United States military. Now, when we settled in Cleveland, first of all, my parents gave
me a name that no Japanese person can pronounce. There are no fees or if you for those of
you that are educators, you do have to speak the language prior to the age of seven brush.
Okay. So, dead body was born in your home hospital in Cleveland and as a child I was sent
home one day and they said I wanted to go home and I was at my friend's house to eat. What I
said is I wanted Gohan and my mother laughed. I never got a meal. Gohan is the Japanese word
for right. So I gratefully accept this prestigious award on behalf of the current and past
Japanese American community.
