I'll say it again, so proud of the city that I love, the city that we love. I mentioned the
Good Stuff family, the stories that we're trying to tell now. We stand up two things. We
say, "Together we can, together we will, and God weaves, now watch and work." And that's
what I'm saying here. I'm in awe, again, of all of the Good Stuff that is at the core of the
heart of the city that we love. Okay, next up we have May Chen, inducted by Margaret Wong.
Margaret Wong was inducted into the inaugural class of the CIHF. She's the leading
immigration attorney in the country and has been a strong and generous supporter of most
cultural and ethnic activities in the city. We follow Mr. Redna and Valerie, both old, old
friends. And before I introduce May Chen, I want to tell everybody in this room that Mr.
Redna and my family and girls and sister and I, we go way, way back. When I first moved to
Cleveland, I was young, I was hungry, I was an absent nobody. We didn't even have $200 in
effect. I went through a horrible personal relationship. And the first person I met was the
person named Albert Redna. He was so humble. I didn't know he was that rich, and the
daughter was the rich and now, but the most righteous person in his home. So he came, he
said hello, and Rose, the pearl of the Orion restaurant, has been this kind of, since day
one, we are there. So we talked about when the new mall started and the family, Redna
family, again, is on the board. And we are closing on June 30th. So Mr. Redna gave Rose an
awesome, awesome send-off. He has helped my family so much, so much, so much. And I was a
young lawyer, he referred clients, he would come to the restaurant at night and say, this is
how you do things, this is what you do, you know, and don't worry about it. And my
reputation is, time goes on, we're talking about, you know, the old, the Nazi people, and of
course, his tuition. And he'll tell me, don't you ever dare, what can I do? I mean, I do
know, but you know, we don't. So I just cannot thank you. And I had some struggles. The
plane dealer was the, my little, my little, my little friend Alex Atreskys here, they had
such bad complaints about me and my racism, and of course, I was too good. So who called me
the first time? Like, when Rose came to see me at home, Mr. Redna gave me, he said, don't
worry about the plane dealer. You go on, you do this, you do that, and I came back up. We
have nine offices now, and I want to thank you. And I've set some horrible things, and I say
wrong things, he'll call me and say, I heard you said this, don't you ever. You are a
somebody now. You're no longer 30 years ago who you were. So Mr. Redna, I owe you big, big
time, even now, to call us, I won't zero-beam, my husband and I, you are awesome. And
personally, that's such a big question. But of course, as an old-fashioned Chinese with an
old Jewish, I do this, I do this, I do everything. Oh my gosh, is he this? Is he that? My
husband knows all that. So now let's talk about it. We have to do better than Mr. Redna, not
this competition. Come, clap for me. What a great honor it is for me to receive the
Cleveland International Hall of Fame Award. I do want to thank profusely, Mark R Wong and
the Cleveland International Hall of Fame Selection Committee for this honor. At the Tenement
Museum in New York City, there's a poll. People without ambitions stay home. Only those with
ambition were willing to risk their lives and fortunes, travel long distances, and attempt a
new life in the United States. I believe this prestigious award should rightfully be shared
with these people, immigrants and refugees, whom I have the honor and privilege of helping
and serving. I'm constantly humbled and moved by their matchless resiliency, great
sacrifices, endurance of unspeakable pain, and remarkable adjustment to challenging
circumstances in this country, in order to realize their hopes and dreams for themselves and
them. My work was simply to do the right and just thing. By advocating on their behalf,
helping them navigate through unfamiliar terrain to overcome barriers here and to reach
their goals. My journey with them has been fulfilling, inspiring, and great joy. In the
early 30s, when my parents came to study in America, they were inspired by their thought
provoking professors, witnessed boundless opportunities to create and succeed, and felt much
warmth and support from fellow Americans during their stay. After returning to China and
Hong Kong, they were convinced America was the place where their children would thrive and
succeed. My siblings and I will forever remain grateful for the sacrifices they made for us
coming to America. My choice of profession to help and serve immigrants and refugees would
not come to fruition were it not for this country's great heart, for the displays,
oppressed, and marginalized. Service, compassion, generosity, and human rights characterize
the strength of this country. Therefore, I will remain always grateful to this country for
realizing my dream to improve the quality of life for immigrants and refugees, to become
fully contributing and patriotic American citizens. Joining me tonight are many who
encourage and support and advocate for my community work. Asia CEO Elayto and her leadership
team and Asia board members. Cleveland Community leaders, Annie Hu of the Erie Journal, Anna
Lee, President of the Chinese Women's Association, Chia Chen, City of Cleveland Community
Relations, and Dr. Kevin Hartley from East Western University. I want to thank my husband,
Dr. C.F. Chen, for bringing me to North East Ohio, where we work, where we raise the family,
and we're able to serve the community. And also I want to thank my children and
grandchildren for supporting Asia all these years since they were born. My fervent hope is
that we must continue to work together to foster and nurture women, men, young adults, youth
in our immigrant and refugee community, to be meaningful voices and leaders. North East Ohio
can provide the resources and opportunities to realize this most important goal. Our own
immigrant communities must commit to be civically engaged. We must find time and learn to
incorporate altruism, compassion, and philanthropy in our daily living. Finally, during
these difficult times from the pandemic, racism, and political divide, we must re-establish
our faith in one another, revert to our country's core values, and continue to welcome
immigrants and refugees who hold great promise and growth and strength for America. Thank
you.
