Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/ralph-perk-jr-2018/ralph-perk-jr-2018_QxG7VrfKyXo.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T17:17:31.179Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

Ralph J. Perk Jr. will be inducted by Congresswoman Mary Rose Okar. We all know Pinehurst
women, Okar. She was a 2012 inductee in the Cleveland Air National Hall of Fame. Along with
her distinguished public service work, she's well known for her work, Peace and Justice in
Central America at the Middle East. She's a monitor for the Palestinian and Czechoslovakian
elections. She attended Middle East peace signings at the White House. She flew with
President Clinton on Air Force One to Syria after a peace agreement was signed. She was also
the national president of the American Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, the ABC. So
Congresswoman Okar will induct Judge Rocky Ralph Perk. And now as well, but I'm really
inspired tonight, aren't you all? Isn't this terrific? With your reception doctor, I know
everybody very well on this podium. And they're fabulous people. And to let a Democrat
introduce a Republican like Ralph Perk shows what Cleveland's all about, that we need in
Congress and the President. You're good friends. Ralph Perk Jr. Do you know anybody who
dislikes Ralph Perk Jr.? He's the most likable guy I know. He's got five brothers and one
sister. His father was one of the absolute fabulous mayors of Cleveland. You know why I
think that? Among other reasons. And I served in that era as a councilwoman because he cared
about the neighborhoods. And that's, I think we have to go a little bit back to that area.
Well, he looks like his father, Meripur, but don't forget he's part Italian and he's got
that flair of his mother, Lucian. Ralph has been, and I'm not even going to details on the
program, but he's been in Cleveland City Councilman. He's been elected mayor and president
of the Cleveland Board of Education and elected and served 13 years as a Cleveland municipal
judge. He's won so many awards if you want to know what they are. Three fro years. You know,
I have a devotion to, where's Father Kelly in here? Father Kelly out of our living room.
Paris Ralph's Paris. Paris, right. But I have a devotion to St. Louis of the Little
Following. One of the things she said that I think Ralph emulates is all you have to do is
do simple things well. And that's what Ralph has done without the fanfare and trying to get
the publicity and all that, that sometimes some people do. But let his mother, remember
Lucy? I don't know if you remember Lucy. I mean, I know you remember her for the great one,
but Lucy, who was very loyal, so loyal that she kept her bowling league commitment instead
of going to the White House. I don't blame her. No, seriously. That White House would be
kind of interesting. Fine. But Ralph was loyal also, was loyal to his parish. Who's my
father? Loyal to his family. Loyal to his country. Two offices where I saw him in action. I
served in Cleveland City Council with Ralph. In council, he was not controversial. He was
the only Republican. I had city council. His father was mayor. Never did I ever see Ralph
play that out. Like I gotta get this, I get that. It wasn't like that at all. In fact,
probably he had worked harder to get things from his father as mayor. He was a councilman in
a Slavic village. One of my favorite neighborhoods that I was privileged to represent in
Congress and did not get a lot of perks, as I mentioned, from his father that I ever saw.
You know, the Democratic members of city council had a caucus. And we used to meet at Pat
Joyce's on 9th Street. I don't know if you remember where Pat Joyce's was right on the
corner of there. And we have a, George Flores was the council president and a fabulous guy
who, by the way, got along very well with Ralph. We were convicted. Great things together.
But anyway, we had this caucus meeting and we had a little bit of dinner. And I said to
George in my first term naivete cell for public life, I said to George, "You know, we're all
here. There's only one person not here. Ralph Kirk. Why isn't he invited?" And George says,
"Mayor Rose, he's a Republican. This is a Democratic caucus." But the fact is that Ralph was
very, very well liked and very cooperative with his Congress. My second encounter as a
public official, as a member of Congress now, was when Ralph, did you know that he was on
the Cleveland Council Educational Board of Trustees for the city of Cleveland? Did anybody
know that? He was president, elected president by his colleagues when he could vote for the
board. Did I? I won't say that again. But anyway, Ralph was president. In Ira's and
Congress, Ralph would come to Washington to lobby, not only me, he'd go everywhere to ask
for help with the Cleveland students and the Cleveland public school system. He was
fabulous. And we didn't know that. We didn't know that Ralph was doing that. Probably in
many ways in his own, his fence. So he was carrying in conscientious. Here's a Catholic kid
who went to Catholic schools fighting for the public school system. And I think Ralph was
absolutely terrific and very, very concerned about the children in our schools. And then he
became a Cleveland municipal judge for 13 years. And I don't know, Rob, can you still do
that? You know, as a retiree to come back, substitute, right? I didn't ask people about
Rob's reputation in preparation for this. Not that I didn't know, but they said he was the
most balanced judge, which is what you need, and extraordinarily fair. He knew how the
weight of the scales of justice was part of Ralph. And now he's still active in lots of
ways. But his father, Mary Purr, founded something fabulous and probably a prelude in a way
to what we are here tonight at the Cleveland International Hall of Fame. His father founded
the American Nationalities Movement, which was very, very inclusive. And I love the way Mary
Purr used to describe the people of Cleveland. He called it a cultural mosaic of people. And
that's who we are. I think there's 112 different ethnic groups in Cleveland, Ohio. And so
Ralph was nominated to be president, you know, third removed for the American Nationalities
Movement by one of his father and Ralph's girlfriends, who is here tonight and was inducted
on the memorial. And she should stand up because she kept that program going. I don't know.
I don't know how to do that. I think I'll put it up there. Thank you. There she is. I think.
Well, I asked, I hope you don't mind, Ralph. Why did you nominate Ralph Jr. to be president
of the American Nationalities Movement when you retired from it after many years of service?
And she said it wasn't because he was the son of the mayor who founded it. It was because he
always volunteered. He always took the pictures. He always wrote, she told me you wrote the
most beautiful letters to people. And I think that's a real talent as an old English
teacher. So tonight, Judge Kirk is honored by being inducted to the Cleveland International
Hall of Fame. Ralph Kirk Jr. is truly deserving, a very fine person. And you know what? He's
a great guy. And I'm proud to know you, Ralph, and proud to be your friend, and proud to be,
as we always have been, when we work together, when we work with you, Jan, non-partisan. God
bless you.
