Well, this is a five page introduction, but my son made sure that it's double spaced and the
fun is 18. So on behalf of the Bafna, Fennessur and Patel families, I would like to thank
the Cleveland International Hall of Fame for this tremendous honor bestowed upon our father.
We call my father Kakuza. In our region of India, Kakuza is a respectful title for father's
younger brother. My father lived in a joint family and since my father is the youngest of
three brothers, all my cousins, his brother's children, called him Kakuza. As a result, I,
my sister and my brother also called him Kakuza. It is a common occurrence in our village
and has continued here at Cleveland as well. Kakuza was born to a middle class business
family in a small village in Northwestern State of Rajasan, India. Though I do not remember
much about my grandfather, I do know that he was a simple man with an iron will, dear him to
truth, honesty, compassion and service to others. These values have been instilled in Kakuza
and he passed them on to his children, grandchildren and great-granddaughter now. By sixth
grade, Kakuza decided that he wanted to pursue medicine. Since our village only had a school
till seventh grade, he had to be enrolled and moved to a neighboring village for further
studies. There in eighth grade, he shared an apartment with three boys. They cooked,
cleaned, went to school and studied. Imagine today sending an eighth grader away from home
to live with three other boys. Clearly, my grandfather had full confidence in him and Kakuza
never let him down. He married my mother Kambla when he was 18, was still in medical school
and as the saying goes, behind every successful man, there is a woman. Kakuza received
unconditional love and support from my mother. She was also a lady of strong will,
compassion and of service to the community. Equipped with scarcely a fifth grade education,
for the sake of her family, she reluctantly agreed to move to the US when she was 31 years
old. She struggled to learn English, to drive and learn ways of her new home. But she did
this with a beautiful smile. She taught us the meaning of love, respect, kindness,
generosity and hospitality. Kakuza decided to settle in the US, but he never forgot his
roots. Like his father, he lived a simple life. He continues to give back to his community
in India and his adopted country by building schools and hospitals. In recognition of his
work, the people of his village in India presented him with their highest honor in front of
nearly 10,000 in December of 2014. He has been a pillar of the Indian community's equipment.
He has never said no to anybody because he is a man of few words. Yet he walks the walk by
delivering his promises. He is the kind of friend you want in your time of need. He
practiced medicine and bed for nearly 40 years. He is loved by it, loved and admired by his
colleagues, subordinates, and most of all, his patients. Kakuza, I have not known a more
loving and giving man than you. You have gave an incredible path for your children,
grandchildren and a great friend of mine. We are proud of, proud and overjoyed as you
receive this honor. Thank you to all who made this evening possible. And finally, a special
thanks to our extended family in Cleveland and to my cousin and brother-in-law who came from
India for this event. I'm sorry to give you the microphone, but what a testament that people
came from India number one. And that for the first time ever, the Hall of Fame has a
one-year-old in the end. They wanted to bring to share this evening.
