Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/branka-malinar-2025/branka-malinar-2025_BKuCcyGsdek.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T14:18:00.664Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

Heat. Heat. Oh, heat, heat. Heat. Yeah. Heat. Yeah. Heat. Yeah. Heat. Heat. Heat. Yeah.
Heat. Yeah. Heat. Oh, heat, heat. Yeah. Heat. Yeah. Heat. Yeah. Heat. Heat. Heat. Yeah.
Heat. Yeah. Heat. Yeah. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Yeah. Heat. Heat up here. Heat. Heat. Heat.
Heat. And I also like to mention Heat. Heat. Heat. manager special was truly a surprise for
me and my family and real I'm sure this award will I'm sure somewhere. So one day in August
1983, Jerry came home and he do this and start over 40 years promoting our history and our
culture. We presented a full art fine art literature and outreach programs in 2009 without
the opportunity to put our own standal for those of you that don't know the mission of these
artists is to experience The peace and culture of the countries that are represented in the
culture open sculpture is the beautiful mother. She represents my mother. She So the back of
this beautiful statue reads dedicated to all the mothers who brought their families to
America seeking freedom and a new life. I appreciate my love for my home. My heart and my
sister in 1951 and my love for our culture. Jerry and I dedicated our lives to promoting our
creation culture and I will I will continue to you are. I love each and our daughter as
well. So they are my daughter and present school outage programs. two of my grandchild. So
over the years to be able to take my children so that they can see what a beautiful country
is. These are provided with the opportunity to meet our family. The children and the
mountains. The exquisite ancient architecture, the beautiful cathedral and churches, the
lovely green pastures and wine and beautiful music. I still have one to take. Finally, I'm
grateful to the many wonderful volunteers over the past 42 years who each skills and untold
powers and with us here today have been here. I share this honor also with those who no
longer museum organiz today. I also have with me our current Heat. Yeah. Heat. Maria
Patricia Jerry and thanks also to organizations that supported our projects financially over
the The local foundation maration club business association family. Congratulations to all
the ser today. Keep on doing everything you do to promote your culture. was built by many
who settled here and built into a great I warriors in my heart as I general ship. Thank you.
