Thank you very much. When I noticed at all, Senora C. Senores, I wanted to start with my
language, Spanish. I was born in Spain and grew up in Latin America. In any rate, good
evening, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, allow me to congratulate and thank the handsome
family for their awesome job that they perform every year, keeping alive the leadership of
promoting and celebrating the leadership in our international communities. Congratulations
to all the individuals, wonderful leaders in this body, wonderful friends. Today, I have the
great honor to induct Carolyn Balogh to the International Hall of Fame. Everyone in this
audience, majority, knows Carolyn as a great leader, as a great businesswoman, CFO, HR
director, and vice president of their own family business, Marva Ng. Also, a great leader in
the Hawaiian community. Tonight, in my short and brief remarks, only two minutes ago now,
only a few of us, and I am one of the lucky ones, knew Carolyn's philanthropic role, vision,
and support to the Spanish community. I surprised Abby when I told her the story and I
presented her fantasy. I knew that she would be a winner. I had the pleasure to meet Carolyn
more than 20 years ago. We need to recognize time pass. We were together serving at the El
Barrio Board of Directors. We are one of the most successful Hispanic agencies in East North
America. She was, during those days, the first chair of the Programs Committee, and under
her leadership, the job placement requests extended expectations. She was able to develop a
great partnership with company owners searching for employees to fill their job openings.
She also created a passing program for employees with transportation needs. Additionally,
Carolyn lived a girl, an after-school program at the elementary level, including mentoring
and tutoring. And all of this was done in the different locations of the school system.
Carolyn is well known for her professionalism, for her high emotional intelligence, and for
her sensitivity and empathy toward others. Her early education and empowering employees were
two of her most notorious passions. Please welcome Carolyn Varo. [BLANK_AUDIO]
