Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/carolyn-balogh-2016-2016/carolyn-balogh-2016-2016_e_C-YpIWjt8.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T17:17:31.140Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

Thank you Maria. Thank you for everything you said so kind and congratulations to the fellow
inductees. I'm really humbled by your accomplishments and your dedication. Congratulations.
I have been raised and born in Cleveland and have lived in Cleveland all my life. My
grandparents came from Hungary, met and married in Cleveland and were proud Americans. I
have had a good fortune of marrying a Hungarian who was born and raised in Hungary. He was
shot fighting for the freedom of his country in 1956. He served five years in the US Army
and settled in Cleveland. There is no more loyal and proud American than Jim. My work with
El Barrio began with the need in the Hispanic community. My background is in human resources
within the company that my husband and I founded in 1970. This led to my chairmanship of the
El Barrio program and jobs committee. I love to work and I have always loved my work. At El
Barrio I worked with people who had the same values and work at this. When you are
surrounded by people who have a passion for their heritage it is contagious. The Cleveland
Hungarian development panel has given back to Hungarians in the form of youth programs and
scholarships. It is an all volunteer organization that has given more than one million to
Hungarian youth. The Hungarian cultural center of Northeastern Ohio and the Hungarian
heritage museum carry on the Hungarian tradition in their Hungarian village and also their
museum. I have wonderful role models in the Hungarian cultural garden. We have members who
have dedicated a lifetime to the garden. A past inductee Ernie Meeha. We have members who
have danced as children and took part in the garden dedication in 1938. Another past
inductee Jenny Brown. We also have many young people who work along with us today such as
the Raddick's who are here tonight. You don't need to be a first generation or even speak
the language of your ancestors to carry on their heritage. Love of tradition comes from the
heart. Music and arts are universal in language and bring us all together. My work in the
Hungarian cultural garden is a labor of love. The garden is 78 years old, 78 years young and
is in the midst of a restoration project. The garden's legacy wall tells the story of the
cultural arts of Hungarian. It is the first new installation in nearly 50 years. We filled
our garden with the music of Hungarian composers and musicians. Our annual concert in the
garden is free and open to all. Our ancestors in 1938 created this garden for the benefit of
all Clevelanders. As we pass this treasure to a new generation we pay homage and thanks to
our ancestors. In the cultural garden we are surrounded by people who are passionate about
their heritage. There are currently 29 active gardens in the federation and their number is
growing. The Cleveland Cultural Gardens is one of the best and most unique assets of
Cleveland. As was mentioned earlier this is a special year for the Cultural Gardens as they
celebrate their 100th anniversary and continue their tradition of peace through mutual
understanding. The cultural garden chain is a living example of cooperation among the
diverse ethnic communities of Cleveland and a tribute to the greater Cleveland area as an
international city. As the gardens move into their second century we will all celebrate with
them. We will carry on the tradition of the past 100 years and embrace the cultures of the
second century of ethnic Clevelanders. Thank you.
