Thank you everybody. I personally from the bottom of my heart would like to thank everyone
here for your presence this evening among other inductees. Unlike Jose said, God is first on
my list of thanks and then comes my parents and he mentioned my parents which were very
mental in my life. Pretty van grossa Maria, who are now these kids, may they rest in peace.
Who taught me everything from early childhood that service to others is the most important
thing to do in our lifetime. Our homeless will of faith and love, joy and care and
compassion for others. We have families passing through the city that needed a place to stay
and our home became that place. It was a house full of most of the time among with our pets.
It was like a suit. I would like to thank all the people that helped me through my illness
which Jose mentioned. From a traumatic brain injury on May 21st will be 10 years in 2008. An
angry reason that almost took my life. I want to thank my siblings present here for your
undaunted love and support during that time and to this day I love you and gracias and I
would like my siblings to stand wherever you are. My brothers and sisters. Gracias for being
here. I want to thank all my dedicated friends that I have had all these years. Too many to
count. I want to thank my sisters and community that their many consistence and associties
of peace for your continued support in all the ministries I took on. Thank you. There are
some sisters with me here tonight. Please stay. Lastly I would like to thank Deborah Henson
and the Cleveland International Hall of Fame and Dan for all you did to give me here and you
continue to do for others that will come after us. May you all have a safe trip back home.
May the peace of our gracious God go with you. I got Sister Alicia, I got an email from her
saying, you know, I'm expecting to see Sister Rachel and all that here, you know, and she
sent me an email saying, I got my outfit, I've got a flower for my hair, I've got a clumsy
skirt, so if I'm dancing, it'll move with me.
