Jose Ensevce, not so fast El Jefe. Jose himself is a 2012 inductee of the Hall of Fame.
First Hispanic public official in the history of the city of Cleveland. White House fellow
in the Reagan administration. He's practiced law and led the Puerto Rican and broader
Hispanic communities for decades. He has earned the title that his son is called him of El
Jefe. So let's get the boss up here in the duck system. Yes, I know there's a singer by that
name. Alright. Anyway, I counted a joy and a privilege to introduce my dear friend of more
than 60 years. You heard that right, more than 60 years, Sister Alicia Alvarado. I'm happy
to do that on behalf of our community, especially my organization in Hispanic Roundtable
that's sitting over there. Well, I'm only going to be able to scratch the surface of her
accomplishments and character. I'd like to give you a little flavor of the life of this
dynamic young Latina, Sister Alicia Alvarado. So let me give you a brief description of what
I hope to cover here. She's a faithful servant of her God and King. She's the first daughter
of the Hispanic community. Servant leader, grassroots leader, and a friend of all,
especially the poor. Sister was born in Puerto Rico. She grew up on the Midwest side of
Cleveland on the West 31st place. She attended St. Patrick's School where she was educated
by the personal nuns and influenced by the Jesuit priests. And that's where she got her
initial call to the Sisterhood. She was the devoted child of her mother, Lorna Rosa, and Don
Felipe, and her brothers and sisters, especially her development of the challenge sister.
But her guiding principles and priorities were always God first, her family second, the
poor, the needy in the weak, and the community were third. And Alicia was last, always a
distant last. In our community, she was involved in every, let me underline, every major
Hispanic organization and initiative. Let me give you a little flavor. She began her
involvement with the Puerto Rican, well, PR 76. And then she went to the Spanish American
committee and always was one of the principal leaders there. And she served there for
decades, decades, serving the underserved. Where she always served the underserved for food,
housing, and work. In 1984, what was the other Hispanic forum, another Hispanic roundtable,
she helped convene the entirety of our community at San Ignatius High School where we set
our first agenda. So I remember in 1984, those many late nights in the Justice Center, my
former office, the city of Cleveland Press Museum's office with Jose Feña Nueva, with Jose
Feña and Sister Alicia, and trying to plan our event. And I can remember always saying to
Alicia, how do we know anyone? And she always said, she always assured me, she said, my
people will come. And they did. And so at this first event at Ignatius, we had thousands,
thousands of people that showed up. And the person that's most responsible for that initial
success was sitting right over here. And they came because Sister Alicia Alvarado asked her
to come. Because there's no better community organizer in this community because of her big
love, because of her big heart, and the love of our community for Sister Alicia. The little
flavor for this historic accomplishment, just to digress a little bit, but among the first
things that we did there was that Alicia was a big supporter of this, was the Hispanic
scholarship forum, which is Esperanza, which today gives more than a hundred scholarships.
And it is one of the largest Hispanic scholarship programs and most successful in this
country, and the person that has made as big a contribution as anyone to sit right over
there. So that community participation tradition exists to this very day. And I'll explain
to you in our last convention recording, we had 3,000 people. 3,000 people attended. And
that, approximately the cause of that, is sitting right over there. I mean, that is such a
big deal. Did you know who goes there? Dick Pomer! Pomer goes over there. That's how big
that is. Anyway, Sister Alicia loves her culture, and I'm reminded of the Puerto Rican
composer, roughly every night, as we said, "If I had not been born Puerto Rican, I would
have wished I had been born Puerto Rican." Anyway, that's Sister Alicia. And it's a core
sentiment in Alicia's life. So she loves our food, the rice and beans, the bienvene, the roc
compoi, or the patina, the flan, the pada deja, the marcida, and a sofada. That's just where
she started. But, what that has to be associated with music, principally in berengue and
salsa, and dancing. And boy, can that girl dance. So you've heard of the flying nun and the
singing nun, but you're shortly going to meet a dancing nun. She's always made a profound
sense of social justice, and that was manifested with her work with the beloved and historic
Cesar Childress. And his efforts and their efforts to, on behalf of Farmworker Movement, to
help them attain a decent life for all farmworkers throughout America. When Chavez was here,
Sister drove him throughout the entire state, and she was Cesar Chavez's chauffeur. And
Cesar Chavez used to refer to her as his bodyguard here in Ohio. And she played a
significant role in people politics. She was intimately involved in Charles Stokes's two
elections. Stokes, of course, was the first African American mayor of a major city in
America. Moreover, she campaigned and worked, and principally was responsible for the
election of Joe Santiago, who served admirably as his administrative assistant. But she also
shared her gifts with her American sisters, where she served on their national board as
well. And that is as a result of her humility, her leadership gifts, and her love of the
Lord. About ten years ago, she suffered a massive stroke, and I remember seeing her at her
rehab facility in the fetal position, and unable to speak. And truthfully, I did not believe
that she was going to survive. But there are modern day miracles, and God in His goodness
gave her back to us because He still had more for her to do. But let me finish with a couple
of scripture quotes that come to mind when I think of Sister Alicia. The first is in the Old
Testament, to do it around me. "You shall walk after the Lord your God, and you shall serve
Him and hold fast to Him." And from my end of the Testament, James 2. "But what good is it,
my brothers, if someone says that He has faith, but He does not have works? If your brother
or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says, 'Then go and
peace be warmed and filled without giving them the things needed for the body,' what good is
that?" God has a special focus on the poor, the words of the evangelist Luke, regarding
principles in Sister Alicia's life. "What you've done for the least of my brethren, you've
done for me." So she has lived her faith and served our God by serving others. So let me
give you this great servant leader, this patron saint of the Hispanic community, this
bodyguard, this friend of all, especially the weak and the poor, the dancing nun, Elmara
Alicia Barad.
