Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/mayor-frank-jackson-2025/mayor-frank-jackson-2025_diVkkJkn0sY.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T14:18:00.670Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

Heat. Heat. by 14 international I'm just like congratulations to all of the honories this
evening. I have not here this evening. So I'm going to read his introduction and induction
close. I wish I could be with you all tonight. Thank you for me. I want to thank the
handsome family for their commitment and choosing outstanding candidates each year.
Congratulations on 15 years. Also, congratulations to all the winners this year. The winners
are not chosen because they are better, but because they have made themselves better for all
of us. I have been privileged to know many years throughout the United States. Frank stands
out by far as one of the best because of what he accomplish. I will not list them all. Many
things done are still kids in this city. The Cleveland for education, Rocky Mort, the West
Shore way neighborhood redevelopment. What is also wonderful is that he did honesty and
integrity and also as an advocate for people of all colors. It is what it is. What his
action says is we will not accept what it is. We are going to change it. Thank you for
making Cleveland a better everyone in this room that is part of the international community
first of all know what happened the international community can't see all the country want
you to open up a place. We want a welcoming center. We want to use the old time here. But he
did say I don't want a welcoming city in city hall because at some point city I want
community and that's where Cleveland was born out of you all remember Cleveland was born out
of that um idea to help create this. Mayor Jackson has illustrated as the 56 mayor. He's the
56 mayor of the city with his actions with his commitments to everything that he has done.
He was accountable to what he told. He's the same person. You can go back and pull all of
his dresses. He told you everything he was going to do before he told you. He never wavered.
He never changed at the heart of everything that he believed in. He believed in the people
of the city of people stood up. They were they deserve to have as always say they only ask
people what they deserve to have as a president of the city of Cleveland. And so when you
think about the international community and you just where we are in history today, everyone
in this room plays a role to the leadership and the integrity that may gain. We are who we
are. We are one another. There's no difference between us. We're different shades of
excellence. And Jackson was so bad in his administration. I told you if he got out here, but
you deserve you have led. You have fought. You are exempt. We as I'm sorry. Heat. Heat. and
this also one of the best deal and it didn't matter the con of whatever it was even the time
we organized trips overseas various countries that we went to was done by international
community. And so I wanted to thank them for the work today because Cleveland is what it is
today because of us as individuals but because of groups and generations that have gone
before us that have made us who we are today. just one person. Uh my father is is an African
American black and uh he is from his side of the family. We've been traced for generations
in this country for generations. on my mother's side. My grandfather, her father was born
again 19. So my mother was the first generation born here in which the second born, born in
the United States, which makes me the second generation. I mention that to say that
Cleveland is a place where everybody as we said earlier can be who they want to be. They can
accomplish what they want to accomplish. And Cleveland is a place generations of people who
have sacrificed and who have done things that we may not remember as as groups but as
individuals and as families. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat up here.
