Thank you, Lane. Asalaamu Alaikum. Shalom. Waap'pain. Pazu D'Iwario. Ventre. And what's the
Indian? Shunai. Shunai from India. And any other language that I forgot, I'll meet it for
you later on this evening. I want to first as always thank the creator of the universe, who
we know by many names I've referred to God as Allah. And we know that the name of God is a
linguistic terminology that always means the most high. The creator who has brought us all
up a state of non-existence and given us life, and given us spirits, and given us souls, and
given us minds, and given us more inside of ourselves than we see outside of ourselves. And
we're eternally grateful to the creator for not just giving us lives, but also giving us
guidance through all the various scriptures and all the heroes and sheroes that brought
inspiration to humanity all over the world about the importance of spirituality, about the
importance of self and power. And I would be remissive and acknowledge and bear witness to
those whose shoulders that I stand on, who paid a mighty price for us to be here today. I am
a descendant of First Nation people on my father's side who were Cherokee, who were brought
here on the left side of the mountains, as they say, from the rocky side over to the flat
side of Tennessee and Alaska. And my great grandfather was one of the great slaves who was
descendants of the Gambian cynical reasons of Africa. And I thank Almighty God for being a
descendant of them and being able to understand and acknowledge my ancestors in the way that
so many African Americans have not been able to. And so I bear witness to this struggle.
They didn't come here by way of the Mayflower. They didn't come here by way of Ellis Island.
They came here in the halls of slave ship. And we should always recognize and understand the
importance of that travel from the west coast of Africa to the east coast of America and
that sojourn here in North America. So we understand the brilliance of the diversity of this
country, but also the brilliance of what we call the resilience of all of our people who
have practiced history and thank Almighty God for them. And thank you for being here
tonight. I want to give a big shout out to the Hanson family, who has really been, I can't
even imagine where we would be without the ambassadors of this international gathering at
the Soul Corps. And may we continue to acknowledge their work and may they continue to do
work that they're doing to great gatherings like this that where we celebrate diversity and
celebrate ourselves as ethnic Americans in this family park called America. And I also want
to say I will be reduced to the Valley of the College and recognize the city itself and
these great guys that are here this evening that also represent the importance of unity and
diversity. Not just not uniformity, but uniformity in the fact that they got the sinners of
those who came here and struggled and made a life for themselves and celebrate themselves as
well. It's very important that we celebrate diversity and understand the importance of this
struggle. I also want to say that it's important for these kinds of events to take place
because Cleveland is a pivotal city. Obviously in the next couple of months the whole world
will be looking at us and all of us are ambassadors and we continue to be ambassadors even
not into the Republican National Convention, but also afterwards because a lot of eyes will
be on Cleveland. And I know that we want to make sure that we shine not just for the city,
but for what we represent as those involved in this diversity issue. My grandmother used to
say there are people who make things happen, there are people who watch things happen, and
there are some people who say what happened. I don't want you to be that group. She always
encouraged me to make sure that I made something happen in life for myself and make sure
that I try to make a difference in the lives of other people. My grandmother came here as I
said before. Her mother was a full-blooded Cherokee and she was from Pulaski. And if you're
not familiar with Pulaski, Pulaski was the birthplace of the Ku Klux Klan. So here we've got
our Pulaski and came to Cleveland. But she became an entrepreneur and she sold magazines and
books and newspapers from various cities throughout the United States that were from the
black press, from Baltimore, from Detroit, from St. Louis and all these different places.
But she also sold the plane dealer and I would have to come here early in the morning before
sunrise to help put these papers together so she could sell that plane dealer. And I would
sit there and read all these other newspapers from other cities throughout the United
States. And I saw that there was so much commonality in various things that were going on
throughout urban America and the United States. And that is what inspired me to find out
more about my roots. I began to read books about classical African civilization. I began to
read books about the Moors that had lived in Spain and helped civilize possibly even when
there was no understanding of who the Moors were. But we know now that we hear about cities
like Toledo, we hear about places like Cordova, which is not just a car, it's a city.
There's a city down the street called Medina. A lot of people don't remember it. It used to
be called Medina at one time. So we began to associate things with language by picking up on
all of these markers of linguistic similarity and then we can understand why it's important
to celebrate ourselves. So I chose the name Callebso Mod for myself after studying what the
name is and then began to try to make things happen. And for the last 40 years, as a result
of my family and friends and the support group that I have here, we've been able to do many
things. But we want to do more. And one of the most important things that we want to do is
to show young men and women in general, but African Americans in particular, that they can
transform themselves. They can visualize a future for themselves. If they can visualize it
and believe it, then their willpower will allow them to achieve it. And it's important that
we continue to ring that bell in their minds about transformation because everybody's got a
tuning fork. Everybody's got a tuning fork. And many of the people in the population that we
work with, they've covered their work up with a lot of other things. There's a lot of trauma
in our communities. There's a lot of mental health, social health. There's a lot of
economic, unhealthy economic communities. And so what we need to do, what we have to do, is
to go and cut through all of that and show them that the tuning fork that can be here can
ignite them to go through a transformation process like the caterpillar to the butterfly.
That caterpillar goes into cocoon and uses its own body in order to make that cocoon. And
then out of that comes a butterfly. That to me is a very beautiful picture of transformation
of what can happen. And let's continue to work on that. I will continue to work with people
like Dan and everybody. We see so many familiar faces. I remember Dan Coughlin when I was a
young man playing basketball. He said, back in the day, we were playing dealer and a lot of
the Dick Russ and a lot of the long ground. And we worked not just in the hood, so to speak,
even though we do a lot of work in the hood. It's important we understand we're global
people and that we're just as comfortable in a sloppy village as we are in Little Italy, as
we are in Polastan, as we are in the African American communities, as we are in the Asian
Plaza. And as we continue to focus on what we have in common with each other, then I think
we can be successful not only in this mic, but also in the next. Thank you very much. I love
you. And let's thank you for our rest of the tuning work.
