Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/khalid-samad-2016-2016/khalid-samad-2016-2016_kkjaaUZr2ps.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T17:17:31.151Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

Thank you, Dan and Deb. It's truly an honor to be here today. Before I go any further, I'd
like to, in the tradition of African culture, we always ask our elders for permission to
speak. So, before I go any further, I'd like to ask Imam Shahid if I have permission to
proceed. Thank you. It's an honor today to announce to you one of the giants in the city of
Cleveland who I've had the privilege and honor to get to know over the last few years, Elle
Hodge, Amir Khaled, A. Samad. The supreme is to honor him because he's always been my friend
and my brother and my son. Amir Khaled is Samad's president of the Coalition for Better
Life, and many of you know him as "Peace in the Hood." Khaled is the second African-American
and first Muslim to be inducted into the Cleveland International Hall of Fame. We are the
field camera rockers. We call him the ubiquitous Reverend Dr. Otis Moss Jr. receiving a
song. There are not many people that understand the historical context of African excellence
in indigenous, authentic African-American leadership in the city of Cleveland and many urban
centers across the United States of America. In the late 1980s, Khaled was part of the
formation of Coalition for Better Life with legendary transformational leaders such as Omar
Ali Vaid and the Prime Minister himself, R.L. Jones. Many emerging community leaders like
our president mayor, the 56th Mayor of the city of Cleveland, Mayor Frank G. Jackson, joined
Khaled, Omar, and Harlan and others to address socio-economic inequity and issues that cause
and continue to cause distress in poor urban and minority communities. This movement led to
the first ever gang summit here in Cleveland in the United States in 1993 and was the
capitalist for the historical Mid-Yam-March in 1995. He is a minister of culture, an
activist, a mentor, a friend, and a family man. Also here he was a heck of a basketball
player back in the day. Khaled is a minister of culture because he has developed Muslim
groups by using a guide by several principles of the Nguza-Saba. He is an activist because
we are a core and oppressed people. You can count on him to encourage them not to let, in
his famous words, the whisper of self-sabotage, the story of self-esteem,
self-determination, and greatness. He is a mentor because he has helped a countless number
of men and women, including myself, some of whom society have given up on because of their
involvement in gangs and penal institutions and the criminal industrial complex. In their
transition from, in his words, once again, "stake and think" to understand their true self
and greatness. He is a friend to the community, but we can always count on him when
something tragic happens, rather than be the loss of innocence, a child, families who have
lost a loved one, senseless violence by misguided individuals, chaotic situations when the
community needs steady, respected leaders and street creators to lead us through some of the
most tumultuous times our country has experienced in our city as well. He always speaks
truth to power, with strength and grit. But most of all, he is a family man. His friends and
family are with us today. Khalid is vigilant and loyal to the needs of his mother, staying
true to African culture and taking care of our elders. He is a nurturer to his family
members. He has four wonderful daughters who listen to this. This is one of the most
impressive things. There are graduates from Yale, the University of Pennsylvania, Temple and
George Washington. As a matter of fact, African American excellence has had its excellence.
I first met Khalid in the 1990s when I worked with a group of young men who were in my
rights and passes program. My co-facilitator, the white secretary of the Senate, told me,
"We have to invite this brother to lead the Harambee circle." I was struck by his passion,
vision, focus and love for black people and all people in general. After knowing him for
more than 20 years, Khalid Samad still has that same passion, vision, focus and love for
people. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my honor to introduce Khalid Samad and in the spirit of
Harambee, which means joining together for a difficult tense, my brother in the struggle,
Harambee, Harambee, Harambee, Khalid Samad.
