Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/abby-mina-2018/abby-mina-2018_FwV6dXkUhnc.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T17:17:31.176Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

Pierre would not let this opportunity go by without trying to sell you something. Daniel 48
anniversary is being celebrated this coming Friday. Pierre, whenever I make it to the White
House as president, you will be my speech writer. Thank you very kindly. You know, nice
people, God, that's America before I start anything else. And I really mean it when I say
that. We all came from different parts of the world, our families came from different parts
of the world. And we assembled in peace and lovely camaraderie and so on. We're not afraid
of the police or whatever it is. How do you defense the battery of this one? Thank you, sir.
I just a couple of years ago, they told me I was trying to take notice. I had no idea what
that is. So that's why I came with you because I'm coward when it comes to servers and all
that stuff. Okay, that's just how it is. And God bless them. They told me, there's not a way
out of me, Abby. It's just, if some anecdote, three minutes. He said three minutes. I can't
tell you my name. I want to thank all the committees and everyone who is involved in this
great endeavor. Cleveland is like great as an intervention and I love it to read the small
paragraph that I received from the president of my University of Richmond, Virginia. I had
no idea I knew about this. And it came to my heart. I want to thank all the committees and
everyone who is involved in this great endeavor. Cleveland is like great as an intervention
and I love it to read the small paragraph that I received from the president of my
University of Richmond, Virginia. I had no idea I knew about this. Abby, I write with
immense pride to congratulate on being inducted into the Cleveland International Hall of
Fame. I'm so pleased that this honor has been bestowed upon you and I'm grateful that your
commitment to diversity and inclusion has strengthened the multicultural vibrancy of
Cleveland. Some nice words like that about the president of the University. I want to thank
also Mr. Mike Miller. Thank you very kindly, sir. And I want to thank all the friends that
showed up here that came. We have relatives that came here from Virginia. We have good
friends that came here from Canton, Ohio, from Akron, from Toledo, from all over the place.
This means this organization is so credible. Thank you, everybody. You know what? Next year,
maybe you'll hold the meeting and join Daddy and Rocket League. There you go. Really, I
didn't want you to bother and come here this evening, but if you didn't show up, I would
have felt bad too. Your brother's here warms my heart. I appreciate that. I love you. Thank
you. I was born in a little town called Pafreya, which is now famous for the National drink,
hot and wine. It reminds me of the orders of Mary Burek. What's the name? Andy here for
thank you, except they had the... What do you call it? Who would let that cook? Okay, but
now the town is very prosperous. People are very well educated. I was there last September.
You have to watch out for the cars when you cross the road. We were written on a street
exactly, on a road, and the town is very good. So in the 1950s, my uncle, Joe Weiner from
New Pernice, Virginia, is my father's brother, and his daughter is here with us, and his
grandson is here, and I appreciate that coming here. He visited us at 11, and he said, "Son,
did you want to go to America as a student?" I said, "Give me time to think about half a
second." I said, "Of course. I'll tell you never to ask." So I came here to New Pernice for
one year, then the University of Richmond, Virginia. A beautiful experience happened to me
at the University of Richmond. A kid, a college kid. Wayne Arder from Fred from New Pernice.
He said, "No, you can have it." "No, I have it. You can have it." I was happy that I finally
accepted you. I know he asked. He said, "You know what, Debbie? I just, I don't know how
you're going to impress me very well." He impressed me really. He said, "We just got
engaged. Next year, when we get married, I would like for her to be my best man." I said,
"What do they do?" I said, "I don't know." He said, "We're between now and then, everybody's
fine out." That's what happened. We became friends and he called me after 50, 60 years or
something like that from Texas. So this is a wonderful experience. And to me, the fact that
I studied in Islamic schools, Catholic schools, Protestant schools, secular schools. If you
thought there are two sides to every story, there are five, six, seven sides to every story.
But I don't respect that. Love and beauty. All we have to do in life, most of the time, is
just to listen to each other. Don't interrupt each other all the time. So I thought maybe,
maybe, maybe, conversations on us guys, people, I mean, people, should be like dragging on a
highway. There's a time to eat, a time to stop, a time to, you know, but no records to
drive. Anyhow, at the University of Richmond, I really got involved in everything. As a
student of government and so on, in the newspaper, I became editor of the literary
newspaper, it's called The Messenger. I had some proclivity, I gotta tell you this, with all
the honesty, with all the humility, to writing and this narrative and love and writing in
English and under two bread. Except when I came back here, I lost my southern Lebanese
accent, adopted a Cleveland accent again. I got to Cleveland. By the way, I wanted to live
in Virginia. We got married being what my wife known of, been married for 55 years, as
Pierre mentioned. That was a miserable year for the weather. What should I do? We got
married in November. I said, "I think we're going to Virginia." She said, "Let's try it for
a year, huh? If you don't like it, we'll go back." And I was still trying it. So, anyhow,
apply for the job, because some of you, if you read it, I work for Blue Cross. Apply for the
job. I answered an ad in the paper. It says, "Savings and investment." I said, "That's a
nice and clean job." I had no idea what the insurance was talking about. They gave a subject
to memorize. Until about maybe three weeks after that, I figured, "What? Take this
insurance. I don't want insurance." Anyhow, I set it into it, because I don't like to move
around. So, Pierre mentioned about Cameo, even American media organization. I got involved
with that. I have met one of the boys with a lot of details. And I love America so much. It
bothered me from the college days to see somebody who can spend years here in America, and
they have no idea what America is all about, really. I'm not as color about American
history, but I studied American history very well. And through Cameo, I started telling the
people in our readings, whatever they go, "If you're planning to stay in this country here,
you should be a citizen." And I teach you to become a citizen. When I teach in English and
Arabic, and when my radio program came along, I started teaching them that on the radio. The
questions and the answers, and every time I put a bit of history in it, so that it's so true
in the hand. They appreciated that very much. That's why the immigration people gave me a
little bit of a citation for that, and I also appreciate that. And for one thing, I know
people don't vote sometimes, because we're almost done voting, because they don't know how.
They're afraid of that machine. We either rented, but our members rented or bought or did
something with a voting machine, and we took it during our picnic. And I try to be, don't be
afraid, I'm afraid of it too. Nobody's going to bother you. You put this paper right here,
you wanted to talk to it, you wanted to vote to it, to time, you pushed this button here to
vote to it. You don't make it very easy for them. And that had tremendous effect on the
people. Again, when I had my radio show, the radio show was a learning instrument also. I
love Arabic, I love English, I love history. I was telling them also the questions and
answers, making it easy, how to become a citizen. And many times I accompanied them to
become a citizen. I love this nation, and we have to do whatever we can to keep it number
one. And that's why we're not too bad about it. Because there's no other nation in the world
that did to the world as much good as this country did. And as I used to mention on the
radio, what else would you rather live? Tell me. I believe you can tell me. I don't mean you
go on vacation to this mother nation or that place. I mean to live, where would you rather
live? Right here. And do you even know how you serve to live? Good thanks to everyone. I
want to also mention Father Naheu from my church. He's a friend and a pastor. Well, thank
you very much. And his mother also, Mrs. Samira. You're very kind. I appreciate that. I
consider you my family also. I have two beautiful faces, beautiful people. Thank you for
coming. I appreciate that. You've been very kind. Thank you.
