Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/abby-mina-2018/abby-mina-2018_1KFtDD1w3lg.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T17:17:31.173Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

Abby's many years of service required him to come up now. I appreciate it. What is his son
Michael now? He's the vice president of analytics and portfolio management at PNC Financial.
Michael Kamana. And he's also a speculative fiction author. The other is Pierre DeGionne.
Pierre is the publisher of Profile News, which is the largest Arabic English newspaper in
all of Ohio. That's huge. He's also Abby's successor as president of Cameo and other groups.
It's my pleasure to introduce first, Pierre DeGionne. I hope you're having a great time. I
think we have a great lineup here tonight. And I really want to thank the bottom of my
heart, the Hansin family. Let's give them a big hand of applause. Thank you so much for what
you do to the international community. Thank you so much for this international hall of
fame. You guys are a legendary in our community and God bless you for being involved so
much. My name is Pierre DeGionne, as you have mentioned. And I am the president of the
Cleveland American Police Organization, known as Cameo. And the chairman of the board of the
American Lebanese Community Council and the Lebanese Cultural Guard. Also, we are affiliated
with the world Lebanese Cultural Union. I want to congratulate our dear friends inducted
here tonight. They mean so much to us. Judge of Purdue Junior, Rocky. Congratulations. And
Sheila Crawford, the president of the House of the Guard. Thank you for what you've done.
What I'm going to do is to be here inducting you, the leader, the philanthropist in the
Lebanese community. Abby, as we say in Arabic, Abdulla, Meena. Abby grew up in Kefraya, 11
in the town located in the Bikar Valley. He was one of 10 siblings, came to the US in 1956,
and issued a living in Richmond, Virginia, where he attended college. And then, thank you to
his lovely wife, Mona. She pursued him to relocate to Kefraya. Thank you, Mona. Abby is a
clerk, not only to the Lebanese community, but to the whole of the Eastern community. There
are not enough words to describe this Greek man. It will take me forever to talk about him.
But I will alleviate as much as I can because I have to do it so. He's humble, gentle, kind,
a man of knowledge, help, peace, and constantly striving for harmony in the community. I
have known Abby for over 30 years. My first meeting with him was in Kenya. Abby was the
longest serving president of Kenya, serving over 15 years. He has remained very much
involved as a board member and a parliamentarian. He was also a former president of the
Kirby Club. It's an Lebanese club in northern Ohio. Abby remained active in our Lebanese
community, currently serving as a vice chairman and a board member of the American Lebanese
Community Council and the Lebanese Cultural Authority. He is a devoted member of St Elias
Milkeit Catholic Church, located in the Brooklyn, where he served as a president of the
council. Abby recently retired from his weekly Arabic radio broadcasting show, which was
featured on WCSB for 21 years. Abby has selfishly served the community for decades, helping
hundreds of people with immigration paperwork and translation services. His involvement
turns so deep into the community, as he has helped countless people facilitate the process
of coming to the US, finding them employment and transforming people from the old country,
and assimilating them to life in the United States of America. He is a friend, a mentor, and
confident, not only to me, but to countless others. Abby has been married to his wife Mona
for 55 years. They have two children, Michael and Sarah, and Dorothy, and three
grandchildren. Abby, you are one of the special select few in the Cleveland community to be
chosen as an inductee to the International Hall of Fame. You are an example. We all strive
to emulate. Congratulations on your induction. I present you, Abby Wiener. Thank you. Thank
you.
