Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/eugenia-stolarczyk-2016-2016/eugenia-stolarczyk-2016-2016_uw_NYpsccxM.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T17:17:31.144Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

Thank you for this beautiful introduction, Council General. It is an honor for me that you
took the time to be here today from New York. Thank you so much, you made my day very
special. I would like to congratulate past and present inductees and I am privileged to be
in your company. And to those who recommended me for the International Hall of Fame and
voted for me, thank you. You support and encouragement throughout the years is what inspired
me to produce the weekly portfolio program, those past three years. And I am very grateful
to my listeners, sponsors, friends, family, for your loyalty and support. I had a dream. I
saw that telling me in the world that you are 55 years on the radio, maybe it was difficult,
maybe it was hard, but you know what, the next 55 years will be very easy. In 1961, as the
Council of General said, my husband and I started the portfolio program while raising our
family and we were active in many parts of organization and how organized many cultural
events. For many years in operation, with the state university, ethnic heritage studies, we
were able to organize many great ethnic cultural events. It takes great pride. I think great
pride and the part that my Polish program, especially the one on the ideas and the public
radio is promoting Polish classical music poetry and poetry events where you can listen to
Przykzowtent, Stanislaw Manuszko, Ignacy Paderecki, Henry Genapski, Wojcie Kieler, Karol
Szczynowski, this is the music of the world's highest quality. In a radio interview with, I
can many interviews with the evening program on ideas stream and one time when I interviewed
Josh Raymond Kienkal, he said, "The new program is a group that keeps Colombia together."
Thank you so much Josh. Some people would say that my major show is unique and many of my
listeners tell me that they grew up listening to the Polish program and that's one way to
keep with the Polish heritage. One place was during the banquet, he was asked to speak and
he said, "I know as much Polish as I learned doing listening to the Eugenia sculpture
programs. I thought that I will come from the chair, it was big audience like that. I love
Polish music and culture and I am proud to have the privilege to promote it and enrich the
lives of my listeners. Thank you again for this honor. Thank you so much for your presence.
