Okay, well as you can see, waiting in the wings there, is our next inductor. The Irish
American community is so proud to have Jerry Quinn as part of it. He's a 2012 inductee of
the Hall of Fame. He's been on the air during Irish radio for 30 plus years. 30 years! He's
a founder of the Cleveland Irish American Club Eastside, which is special to me. And in
1970, he did that in 1978, and he co-founded the Mayo Society here in Cleveland in 2004.
Even those of us that are not from County Mayo will appreciate what a great thing that is.
And you might want to check out the Mayo Hall. It's a wonderful event. It's my pleasure to
introduce to you Mr. Jerry Quinn. First let me say thank you Debbie and Dan Hanson for
following this wonderful organization. I've been here every year since it was founded, and I
was very honored to be the inductor of the Hall of Fame in 2011. The Mayo Society, it wasn't
slight correction. It's 20 years old actually, but we became a 501(c)(3) in 2004. You know,
Debbie said I was 30 years on the radio. We're actually stuck our 39th year. So we're
getting over to some of us. I don't know if I have any of the original listeners left or
not. It's a joy to do. And a lot of people say to me often, "Do you ever get nervous?" I
said, "I do." Especially when I'm speaking public like this to 500 people. They've been on
the radio for 39 years. That's a little different. Television of course is much easier.
Chris wants to head it back. Anyway, it reminds me of a young priest who was very nervous
about giving his first sermon. So he said to the old pastor, he said, "You know, I'm so
nervous. Next Sunday I have to do my first sermon, and the bishop is going to be in the
congregation. I don't know what we're going to do." But the priest says, "It's very simple.
All you have to do is to get the attention of the congregation, and it's plain sailing from
there." He says, "Watch me." So the old priest got up to give his sermon. First thing he
said was, "Some of my seniors of my life were spent in the arms of another man's wife. It
was dead silence, just like it is here in college." Then he paused and went on to say, "Of
course, that woman was my own brother." He was a sigh of relief. So anyway, the young curate
saw that and said, "Not that sport, folks. I'm going to try it next Sunday." One of them
suddenly came. He started off, "Some of the best years of my life were spent in the arms of
another man's wife." And he looked out and he saw the bishop and he froze. He couldn't think
of anything. His mind was completely blank. And after what seemed like a long time, he broke
it out, and right now I can't remember her name. And what was it? We're here this evening to
understand what Northeast Ohio's finance citizens are. I am privileged to be asked for our
post to introduce one of these honorees. Now I'm not going to repeat to you what's in the
program, because I'm sure all of you have read it. But I want to tell you about a personal
story. I'm talking about the first time that I met Sheila Murphy Crawford. It was the summer
of 1961, a long time ago. I had just arrived from Ireland. I was being ashore of the city by
my cousins. But what do you think they took me? First place, they took me to the Irish
cultural garden. And there they introduced me to the Murphy family, who happened to be
working there. We ate lantern flowers and doing what the Murphy family are still doing today
in the garden. And how was Sheila, her mom, her dad, her sister, and her brother? Now it is
easy to see how the great parental influence shaped the person that we see here we are
honoring here tonight. Now I think you all should have read the program. Sheila is a school
teacher. And I've had all my radio programs several times. And we talk about education, and
we talk about English, and we talk about Irish poetry. And one of our favorite pieces of
poetry, and mine, just had to be learned, is something that was written by William Butler
Eats way back in 1906. And it's called The Cloths of Heaven. I don't know if any of you have
ever heard it or not. And it goes like this. Had I the heavens and broader clots, and
wrought with gold and silver light, the blue, the dandy, and the dark clots of night and the
light and the half light, I would spread the clots under your feet, but I didn't pour upon
you my dreams. I would spread my dreams under your feet, walk softly, because you've driven
my dreams. As Sheila had my favorite poem, I said it many times on the radio, she loved it,
she loved it, and what it creates. But the other thing about her is, this is a lady that is
always giving, always organizing, always caring about our community. We value her commitment
to the Irish community. Now all of us know that her value, her value of friendship, and good
will is the one thing that we value most. Sheila, thank you for your friendship. Thank you
for all that you do for the Irish community. We love you dearly, every one of us. Thank you.
