Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/sheila-murphy-crawford-2018/sheila-murphy-crawford-2018_i-iB8SADV8Q.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T17:17:31.184Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

It won't be the first time Jerry will be here. Well thank you everyone. Thank you Jerry for
the beautiful introduction and we truly have been friends for a long long time. I'd like to
congratulate my fellow inductees, the accomplishments, the hard work, the service to your
communities as just for Mark was and it is an honor for me to be inducted with you.
Congratulations to all of you. I'd like to thank Debbie and Ann Hanson, number one, for
steadfastly working on linking the diverse ethnic communities of Cleveland and making the
connections to bring us together and for establishing the International Hall of Fame. We owe
them a tremendous debt. Thank you so much to both of you. To my husband who is sitting over
there, Bob Crawford, come on Bob, stand up. As most of you know, I'm going to be anywhere
with Bob. We both work together on all of our activities and without his support it wouldn't
happen. To my family and friends who came today to celebrate this great event and who always
support me in my efforts, no matter whether you think I'm crazy or not, they're always there
taking the ideas, moving forward and always listening to me say, "Don't worry, it'll be
easier next year." Right? To the members of the Cleveland Cultural Gardens and to the
members of the Ancient World of Hibernians, thank you so much for your continued support and
your friendship and faith that means so much to me. The Murphy Irish Art Center is the Irish
dance school I started 40 years ago and I decided on the name Arts because we wanted to
promote more than just traditional Irish dancing. A lot of what service I've done has come
from my parents, as Jerry suggested, and my grandfather danced when he came here from
Ireland and from that point my mother wanted one of her children to take Irish dance and I
was the one lucky enough to get the lessons. I have now been teaching Irish dance for 40
years and have had thousands of students come through our center. It's provided much more
than just teaching Irish dance, but it's been an opportunity to promote Irish culture to
them. It's been an ability to develop and grow and make them use their talents to inspire
them to do the work. To do better than they ever thought they could. To even get to the
World Championships and the Murphy Irish Art Center and our dancers brought a World
Championship to Cleveland before the Cavs did. I'm here to teach Irish dance, primarily at
nursing homes and senior citizen buildings all across County and I teach the children to
give back their talents to respect their older citizens, to learn how important they are.
After we finish dancing, students are encouraged to go out and individually shake their
hands and let them touch their costumes and let them say hello. It's such an important part
of what we do. It's much, much more than just teaching dance. In addition, we get the
opportunity to inspire them to achieve enough that they can actually get to the World
Championships. We have to qualify, we have to go through an awful lot of effort. Then we get
to take hundreds of people to Ireland with us as we've done over 40 years and show them our
beautiful country. Many of our students decide then to go to school abroad because they're
comfortable with travel and foreign life, but most of all they learn to love Ireland and
they frequently go back, which is the goal. So we've had a wonderful run for 40 years and
hopefully will go on for a lot longer, but it isn't a one person act without all the
teachers that I have and the wonderful support of our parents who really volunteer so many
hours to make all of our activities happen. We wouldn't be successful at all, so thank you
to all of you. And going back to Jerry's story, you know, meeting him in the Irish Garden in
1961, I used to go to all the cultural garden meetings and I tell people about this and I
think they believe me but I'm not quite sure. But I've been going to meetings for over 50
years. As I was a child working in that garden, I used to go to the meetings with my mother
because she was the Irish delegate and we would have meetings in the red room at City Hall.
And I've been with almost every president of the cultural gardens except for the first two.
And so going back to St. Grinsky, sitting in the red room in the mayor's office with a big
cigar out of his mouth and running his meetings etched a memory I'll never forget. And going
on through the future to Richard Conish and the cultural gardens that I think is just
fantastic. So I appreciate all of them coming. We've seen a tremendous growth. We celebrated
our 100th anniversary in 2016. And the cultural gardens are so unique. We are symbolic. We
are historic. We are an artistic treasure of the city of Cleveland. Today Mayor Jackson and
our city councilmen who are here tonight and our Cuyahoga County officials for continuing to
make Cleveland a place that honors diversity and encourages ethnic pride. That is so
important to all of us. Cleveland is a different place because of the ethnic groups that are
the fabric of our city. And when you look at our festivals and our churches, our music, our
plays, our dance, our civic and cultural organizations and of course the cultural gardens,
you can see all of that flourishing in a wonderful harmony. So a whole group of people of
Cleveland will come from different ethnic backgrounds, have really made Cleveland what it is
today. And all of you who are here today are tremendous examples of that where you volunteer
and you inspire the younger generations to do the same. That's how I learned to volunteer
and I'm hoping that that's how the younger generations are going to continue all the hard
work that we've done. So I thank you all for doing that. It's so important to model, not
just to tell someone to do something, but to actually judge yourself and work with them side
by side. It will make so much more of an impact than simply getting directions. So I want to
ask you to support the cultural gardens. All of us here today belong to it. There's a garden
you can join and represent and work for. I encourage you to come to One World Day. It's
September 16th on Sunday and be part of a glorious celebration of all that makes all of our
homelands absolutely beautiful. So thank you very much. All of you with this community of
diverse backgrounds has brought richness and success and true joy to our city of Cleveland.
Thank you very much.
