Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/shiv-k-aggarwal-2015/shiv-k-aggarwal-2015_tX9BPpgJ_3w.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T14:18:00.306Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

I would like to thank Cleveland people.com for providing this wonderful evening that honors
those who have made significant contributions in preserving Cleveland's cultural diversity.
It's my pleasure today to introduce Mr. Ship Ship left India for the United States in 1956.
He's one of the pioneers of the Indian community in Cleveland. He arrived here with a
master's degree in social work to pursue an MBA from the University of Missouri. Attending
that, he worked briefly in Chicago and moved to Cleveland, Ohio in 1958. In the early 1960s,
Shu was active in the Bakai woodland area, helping recent immigrants from Hungary, Slovenia,
and Italy. Many of those immigrants had special skills but could not speak English very
well. But she taught them English and citizenship classes. By using his professional skill
and organization leadership, he should help to facilitate the turning point for many
European immigrants as they made Cleveland, Ohio their home. In 1966, Cleveland was in the
national spotlight with increasing racial tensions and gang violence. The ship took a
leading role to curb the gang violence in the Holland area, putting himself in danger and at
the cost of his own life. He founded Collingwood Youth Association and helped young adults
to take up constructive activities. In 1967, Colinwood Youth Association grew to accommodate
the needs of seniors and came to be known as Cottonwood Community Services Center. This was
the largest neighborhood-based mandai service center in Cleveland. By the way, ship is not
yet done serving the community. He is in the planning state of a nonprofit mobile clinic for
the elderly. This would be a big opportunity for seniors to receive healthcare in their own
homes. Above all, ship is a humble unassuming person who has dedicated his whole life to
make a difference in this world. I consider him as a friend and a mentor. Sh Agarwal has
been recognized for his community involvement by three mayors Ralphburg George Bonovich and
the current mayor Frank Jackson. Now ladies and gentlemen with great honor I wish to induct
Shu into the Cleveland International Hall of Fame 2015.
