Draft transcript generated from public/media/videos/shiv-k-aggarwal-2015/shiv-k-aggarwal-2015_-2OMPdY2pfw.en.vtt.
Generated: 2026-09-14T14:18:00.308Z.
Review required before kiosk approval.

I'm humbled and honored in this introduction to continue continue. I plan to establish a
nonprofit mobile app clinic with private foundations and development funds and uh and I
thank you again very much for your I thank all those who nominated me and the selection
committee for this recognition. Six decades ago, we were a minuscule and unknown community.
We were the of the world. In one neighborhood, I overheard someone saying he's a mix. In
another neighborhood, they asked me that if I was a Puerto Rican, we'll take you. In another
neighborhood, they asked me if I was a city. Since then, the community has grown enormously.
We are in every corner. suburb and vicinity of Cleveland. When someone meets us now, he
says, "You are so smart, you must be Indian." On a visit to India to see my parents, I met
my wife Sosh and married her 55 years ago. When my immigration papers came, I asked her to
accompany me to Cleveland. She said where it is. I showed her a postcard saying Cleveland is
the best location in the nation. She was not impressed. Then I said Falls is only a day
drive from Cubra. She had seen Mara movie. She said how exciting. I hope she was the first
female of the Mad My son said he was going to the public elementary school. Okay. One day
after school, he asked me where were his feathers. He he went on to become a neurologist.
His wife El is also a neurologist. They have two sons Raj and Ash. My daughter Sun My son
was going to the Bwood Elementary School. The school asked them to sell light bulbs for
Israeli bonds. When she went house to house, they said, "A little Indian girl selling bulbs
for Israeli bonds, you should buy from her." She sold the most bulbs and went on to get her
MBA from Cleveland State. Her husband George is an auto surgeon. They have a son Shan and
daughter Saba. My life began in Cleveland due to one individual. Robert M was the executive
director of Neighborhood Center Association whom I met in Chicago. Bob brought me to
Hungarian and Italian neighborhoods of Bakai Woodland as a community organizer. He became my
mentor, guide and a friend. Cleveland leaders have always faced tough challenges. It is due
to your leadership that has become a major strength on the lake and Delhi and then you have
wor the fabric of all communities. I sell it to you ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very
much for your presence here this evening.
